                                  Hacking
                              by Swinging Man
  The recent article on security holes in WWIV BBS's got me to thinking. Where
WWIV is the board of choice among clone sysops, AmiExpress is the dominant
software in the Amiga community, the pirate community anyway.

  AmiExpress is a relatively simple piece of software, and that's good because
it keeps things quick and easy. No means are provided for the sysop to keep
track of top uploaders or even last callers. What is provided is a batch file
that is executed each time a user logs off. In the batch file, one runs
utilities to compile data into text files that are stored as bulletins. That
way the next user sees a bulletin containing the last few users that called,
etc. It's a hassle, but it works.

  When I ran my own board, I wrote my own utilities to fill in these functions.
Then put them in an archive and sent them out into the ether. It's good
advertising. Most sysops don't write their own (surprise!); they have enough
trouble getting utilities written by other people to run. This means it's
really easy to take advantage of them.

  Most utilities search through four files: BBS:USER.DATA, which holds all the
records of users; BBS:NODEx/CallersLog (where x is the node number and is
usually 0), which records all the important stuff a user does when he's online;
BBS:UDLog, which is like CallersLog, but only records transfers; and
BBS:conference/Dirx, which are the vanilla ASCII files containing the names and
descriptions of all the "warez."

  USER.DATA is the most interesting. If one were to write a top uploader
utility, as I have done in the past, one would need to open this file to sort
all the users by bytes uploaded. While you've got the file open, why not save
the sysop's password for later? That's what I've done in the example program
called "Steal.C ." It prints the best uploader with a seemingly random border
around his name. Here's what the output looks like:

  It looks random, but the difference between the top line and the bottom
spells out "passwor&" Easy to see ff you're Iooldng for it, but if you're not
paying attention it just looks like garbage. Of course, you could think up a
better method of encrypting the password than just replacing every fourth
letter. 

  This one is neat because you can just log on and see the sysop's password,
but it's not the only way to do it. You could do anything to any user; however,
the more specific the program becomes, the less useful it will become. It's not
easy to get a sysop to change top uploader utilities. It would have to be better
than the one he has, or maybe a fake update.

  I can think of endless fun to have with these utilities. How about a bit of
conditional code that formats all drives when a certain user logs on, such as
"Kill Board." Or maybe you just want to copy USER.DATA to a download path,
renamed as "coolware.dms".

  So what can you do if you're an AmiExpress sysop? Don't use utilities written
by anyone other than yourself. There isn't any other way. You can monitor the
files opened when a utility is run, but an event-driven action won't be
detected. Or you could look at the whole file and look for any text The text
strings passed to DOS are usually intact. Of course a crunching program like
IMPLODER will get rid of this. And an IMPLODED file can be encrypted with a
password, so good luck finding something that way. Then again, you could
always just forget it. It's only a BBS... you've got nothing to hide.  Right?

  This idea isn't just about AmiExpress.  How many BBS's have doors, or online
games? How hard would it be to write a game like TradeWars that has an extra
option that does any of the nasty things you've always wanted to do?

  AT&T has reason to believe that the telephone listed to you has been used in
violation of Federal Comunnications Commission - AT&T Tariff F.C.C. No. 2
Sections 2.2.3 and 2.2.4.C. These tariff sections prohibit using WATS to harass
another, using WATS to interfere with the use of service by others and using
WATS with the intent of gaining access to a WATS Customer's outbound calling
capabilities on an unauthorized basis.

Accordingly, AT&T has temporarily restricted your telephones service's ability
to place AT&T calls in accordance with section 2.8.2 of the above tariff. If
the abusive calling occurs after AT&T lifts the temporary restrictions, the
restriction will be reimposed until AT&T is satisfied that you have undertaken
steps to secure your number againsl future tariff violations.

                        Defeating Callback Verification
                               by Dr. Delam
    So you feel you've finally met your match. While applying at this board
that you've applied at before, you use a fake name, address, and phone
number. Then comes the part you hate most: the callback verification. "How in
hell am I going to get access without giving out my real number?! I guess i'll
just have to 'engineer' the sysop." Only this particular sysop is too good.
He tries a voice verification, and finds either a bad number or someone who
doesn't even know what a BBS is. Now you have to reapply again! If you worked
for the phone company or knew how to hack it, maybe you could set yourself up
with a temporary number, but unfortunately you don't. So you think hard and
come up with an idea: "All need is a local direct dial VMB. Then I can just
have the sysop call that and make him think it's my home VMB system... that
is, if I can find one to hack."

    Naw, still too hard. There must be an easier way. Loop? No, who wants to
wait forever on a loop - every so often talking with Fred the pissed-off
lineman. What else, what else? You can remember the things you used to do as
a kid before you even knew what phreaking or hacking was. How about the time
you called your friend Chris and at some point in the conversation, when
things got boring, Chris said "I'm gonna call Mike now. Bye!" But you didn't
want to hang up. You heard click, click... but no dialtone. You say "Hello?"
and suddenly you hear Chris shout "Hang up the phone!" Haha! You had
discovered a new trick! If you originated the call, you had ultimate
control! That means if I call a BBS and it hangs up first, I actually am
still connected to the line for a brief period (usually a maximum of 15
seconds); and if the BBS picks up again to dial me for callback verification,
it will get me for sure, regardless of the number it has!"

    This leaves just two problems to solve.  The first problem occurs when
your modem senses a drop in DTR or loss in carrier from the BBS's modem, it
will go on-hook. This means you will have to catch the phone before your modem
hangs up. Your modem may have a setting that will ignore these changes. If
not, you can build a busy switch. This may be done by placing a 1K ohm
resistor and an SPST switch between the ring and tip (red and green) wires of
your phone line. Completing this circuit at any time while online has
the effect of a permanent off hook condition. The resistance provided is
equivalent to the resistance present when your phone is off hook, thus
creating a condition the C.O. recognizes as off hook. With good soldering and
a good switch, no interference will be present after the switch is thrown
while connected.
    Note: Sysops may find the busy switch useful as a confirmation that the
phone line is "busied out" when the BBS is taken down. Sometimes during down
times a reboot or power down is necessary, which will cancel any busying
effects the modem had set previously, making a busy switch in this case
ideal. The second problem occurs when the BBS's modem expects a dialtone
after going from on hook to off hook. A dialtone will have to be provided for
the BBS's modem before it will try dialing whatever phone number you
provided. This requires what I call a "CAVERN box" (CAllback VERificatioN).
Like many other boxes, it is a simple generation of tones. For a cheap and
inexpensive method, use a tape recorder to record and play back the dialtone.
Computer sound generation hasn't been tested, but most PC speakers generate a
square wave, while dialtones are sinusoidal. The best chance for accurate,
artificial sound generation is with a synthesizer. The two frequencies of a
dialtone are 300hz and 420hz. Many  musicians  recognize 440.00hz as the note
A4, and the frequency from which scales are built. Just below A4 on an equal
tempered chromatic scale is at 415.30hz. Tuning a synthesizer just shy of a
positive quarter tone from the normal scale will yield a G#4 at 420hz and
bring the D4 of 293.66hz within an acceptable range of 300hz.

    Needless to say, once you have prevented your modem from hanging up and
have generated a dialtone which has effectively caused the BBS's modem to
dial the phone number, you should issue an answer tone by typing the Hayes
"ATA" command. You will then be connected with the BBS's modem and will have
protected your identification.

                        

PHONE MANAGEMENT ENTERPRISES
396 WASHINGTON AVENUE
CARLSTADT, NEW JERSEY 07072
(201) 507-1951
FAX (201) 507-1095

THIS LETTER IS REGARDING YOUR RECENT REQUEST FOR A REFUND ON THE
PAY TELEPHONE YOU USED.   WE APOLOGIZE FOR ANY INCONVENIENCE THIS
MAY HAVE CAUSED YOU AND WE ASSURE YOU,  THE PROBLEM HAS BEEN
CORRECTED.

WE ARE ENCLOSING, IN LIEU OF A CASH REFUND , UNITED STATES POSTAL
STAMPS TO COVER YOUR LOSS, THIS BEING A SAFER WAY FOR YOU TO BE
ASSURED OF YOUR REFUND.

SHOULD YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS, PLEASE CALL US AT (201) 507-1951.

SINCERELY,

PHONE MANAGEMENT ENTERPRISES, INC.

This is what happens when you request a refund from this company. In this
case, correspondent Winston Smith received two 25 cent stamps which
means he now has to get two four-cent stamps if he wants to mail anything.
Note also that this letter is actually a xerox of a fax that originated
with Tri State Radio Co. The wondrous mysteries of a COCOT  ....

                             by Count Zerg
                       Restricted Data Transmission
                 'Truth is Cheep, but information costs'

    So you're walking down the street and you see a payphone. Gotta make an
important call, so you dig into your pocket to get a dime. Picking up the
handset, you suddenly notice that the payphone wants a quarter for a local
call! What the hell, and where did this synthesized voice come from?

    Let's make this article short and to the point. COCOT is an acronym for
Customer Owned Coin Operated Telephone. In other words, a COCOT is a phone
owned or rented by a paying customer (most likely, a hotel or donut shop). A
COCOT is not a normal payphone. The telco doesn't own it, and the actual phone
line is usually a normal customer loop (unlike payphones, where the phone line
is a 'special" payphone loop, allowing the use of "coin tones" to indicate
money dropped in). So a COCOT may look and smell like a telco payphone, but it
is not.

    Why do COCOTs exist? Simple. Money? A customer owned payphone is money in
the bank. You pay more for local calls and long distance is typically handled
by sleazy carriers that offer bad/expensive service. The owner/renter of the
COCOT opens the coinbox and keeps the money him/herself! Also, a particularly
sleazy quality of a COCOT is the fact that it does not receive incoming calls.
This, of course, is because of money. If people are calling in to a COCOT, the
COCOT is not making money and businesses always want to make as much money as
possible even if it hurts the consumer. Think about it. It really sucks to
call someone at home from a COCOT and then not be able to have him/her call
you back to save money. "Guess I'II have to keep feeding the COCOT quarters!"

    Where is a good place to look for COCOTs? Outside Dunkin Donut shops,
restaurants, clubs, bars, and outside/inside hotels and 'convenient" locations.

    How do l figure out if I have found a COCOT? Simple. A COCOT will have no
telco logos on it. It may look just like a telco phone chrome with blue
stickers and all that. Also, a COCOT typically charges more for a local call
than a regular telco payphone.  (In Massachusetts, local calls are a dime. In
places like New York City, they are 25 cents.) A COCOT will most often have a
synthesized voice that asks you to "please deposit 25 cents" or whatever.
Also, some fancy COCOTS will not look like payphones at all. Some in hotels
have weird LCD displays and look totally different but they always charge you
more than a normal payphone.

    I found this weird payphone in Boston that wants  a quarter,  and this
synthesized voice is harassing me. When does the phun begin? Soon. First of
all, you must understand that the COCOT is a mimic. Essentially, it wants you
to think that it is just a plain ol' payphone. Pick up the handset. Hear that
dialtone? Hah? That dialtone is fake. synthesized by the innards of the COCOT.
You are at the mercy of the COCOT. Remember, a COCOT runs off of a normal
customer loop so, unlike a telco payphone where you must deposit money to
generate coin tones that are read by the central office, the security of a
COCOT depends solely on the COCOT phone itself. It's as if you took your own
phone and put a sign on it saying "Please put 10 cents in this jar for every
call you make." COCOTS are not naive. They won't let you near the unrestricted
dialtone until you fork over the cash-ola. Or so they think!

    See, the Achilles heel of the COCOT is the fact that all payphones must let
you make 1-800 calls for free! It's not just a fact, it's the law. Now pick up
the handset again and place a 1-800 call. Any 1-800 number will do. When they
answer at the other end, just sit there. Do nothing. Ignore them. Wait for
them to hang up the phone. Here's an example.

    Now what have we got here? A dialtone? Yes, you guessed it, the
dialtone you now hear is the unrestricted dialtone of the COCOT's customer loop.

    So what? So I got an "unrestricted dialtone". Big deal?

    Meathead! With an unrestricted dialtone, all you need to do is place a call
via DTMF tones (the tones a touch-tone keypad generates). Now, try dialing a
number with the COCOT's keypad. Whoal Waitasec, no sound! This is a typical
lame attempt at protection by the COCOT. Just whip out your Radio Shack pocket
tone dialer and try calling a number, any number. Place it just as if you were
calling from a home phone. Call a 1-900 sex line. Call Guam. You are free and
the COCOT's customer loop is being billed!

    Note: some COCOTS are more sophisticated at protecting themselves. Some
will reset when they hear the dialtone. To get around this, make a loud
hissing sound with your mouth into the mouthpiece after the 1-800 number hangs
up. Get your tone dialer ready near the mouthpiece. When you hear the
dialtone, quickly dial the first digit of the number you want to call. If you
hiss loudly enough, you may be able to mask the sound of the dialtone and
prevent the COCOT from resetting. Once you dial the first digit of the number
you are calling, the dialtone will disappear (naturally). You can stop hissing
like an idiot now. Finish dialing your free phone call. Also, some COCOTs
actually disable the handset after a call hangs up (in other words, you can't
send DTMF tones through the mouthpiece). Oh well, better luck next time.

    However most of the COCOTs I have run across only disable the DTMF
keypad. So all you need is a pocket dialer to circumvent this!

    Other things to know: Sure, you can't call a COCOT, but it does have a
number. To find out the COCOT's number, call one of the automated ANI services
that tell you the number you're dialing from (the numbers keep changing but
they are frequently printed in 2600). Now try calling the COCOT from another
phone. You will hear one of two things: 1) synthesized voice: "Thank you"
[DTMF tones] [CLICK] [hang up]; 2) weird carrier.

    A COCOT's number is only used by the company that built or sold the COCOT.
By calling up a COCOT, a tech can monitor its functioning, etc. In case number
1, you must enter a 3 or 4 digit password and then you'II get into a voice
menu driven program that'Il let you do "maintenance" stuff with the COCOT. In
case number 2, you are hooked to the COCOT's 300 bps modem (Yes, a modem in a
payphone). Likewise. if you can figure out the communications settings, you'll
be into the COCOT's maintenance routines.

    Personally. l haven't had much luck (or patience) with calling up and
hacking COCOT maintenance functions. l just like making free phone calls from
them.

    COCOT Etiquette: Now, remember, you are making free phone calls but
someone has to pay for them and that is the owner. The COCOT's customer loop
is billed the cost of the calls, and if the owner sees a big difference in the
profits made on the COCOT (profit equals coins from the COCOT minus the bill
from the telco for customer loop), they'Il know something is up. So the rule
is don't abuse them/Don't call a 1-900 number and stay on the line for 12
hours! If a COCOT is abused severely, an owner will eventually lose money on
the damn thing. And that means bye bye COCOT. Also, remember that a record of
all long distance calls is made to the COCOT's customer loop and COCOT
companies will sometimes investigate "billing discrepancies" so don't call
anyone you personally know unless you are sure they are "cool".

    [RING RING] "Hello?"
    "Hello, this is Cointel, Inc. We'd like to ask you a few questions about a
    call you received from Boston on 2/12/91. Could you tell us the name and
    address of the person who placed the call?"
    Cool dude: "What? I don't remember. Go to hell! [SLAM]"
    Meathead: "Uh, sure, his name is John Smith. You want his address too?"

    Get the picture? Good....

    COCOTs are a great resource if we use them wisely, like our environment.
We've gotta be careful not to plunder them. Make a few long distance calls and
then leave that particular COCOT alone for awhile. Chances are your bills will
be "absorbed" by the profit margin of the owner and probably ignored but the
smaller the owner's profit margin gets, the more likely suspicions will be
aroused. 'nuff said! I have found COCOTs everywhere. COCOT technology is
relatively new, though. I know many towns that have none. Check out big cities.

    As for a tone dialer, don't leave home without one! A true phreak always
has a DTMF tone dialer at hand along with a red box! My personal favorite is
the COMBO-BOX (red box plus DTMF). Take a Radio Shack 33-memory Pocket Dialer.
Open up the back. Remove the little 3.579 MHz crystal (looks like a metal
cylinder). Unsolder it. Solder on a couple of thin, insulated wires where the
crystal was attached. Thread the wires through one of the "vents" in the back
of the tone dialer. Get ahold of a 6.5536 MHz crystal (available thru Fry's
Electronics, 89 cents apiece, phone number (415) 770-3763). Go out and get
some quick drying epoxy and a Radio Shack mini Toggle Switch. DPDT, cat. #275-
626. Close the tone dialer, with the two wires sticking out one of the back
vents. Screw it up tight. Now, attach the crystals and wires to the switch
with solder as in the diagram below:

            
    Each "xx" prong in the diagram is actually two prongs. Hook up the two
leads from the crystals to separate prongs (same with the wires).

    Now, epoxy this gizmo to the side of the tone dialer. Use a lot of epoxy,
as you must make the switch/crystals essentially embedded in epoxy resin, as
in the diagram below:

    Make sure the epoxy is really gobbed on there. You want to be certain the
switch and crystals are firmly attached and secure in a matrix of epoxy (it
doesn't concduct electricity, so don't worry about shorting out the
connections to the toggle switch). Just don't gum up the action of the switch!

    Basically, you've altered the device so you can select between two crystals
to generate the timing for the microprocessor in the tone dialer.

    Turn on the tone dialer. Now you can easily switch between the two crystal
types. The small crystal will generate ordinary DTMF tones. By simply flicking
the switch, you generate higher tones, using the memory function of the tone
dialer, save five stars in the P1 location. Now dial the P1 location using the
big crystal. Sure sounds like the tones for a quarter, dowsn't it?

    Carrying this around with you will always come in handy with both telco
payphones and COCOTs! No phreak should be without one!

    References for this article include Noah Clayton's excellent piece on
COCOTs in 2600 Magazine, Autumn 1990. Also The Plague's articlt, on Tone
Dialer conversion to Red Box, 2600 Magazine, Summer 1990 (which inspired me to
create the COMBO-BOX (red box plus DTMF dialer).

    Information is power... share it And drink massive amounts of Jolt Cola.
Trust me, it's good for you. Keep the faith, and never stop searching for new
frontiers. 


Starring:  Robert Redford, Ben Kingsley, Dan Akroyd, River Phoenix, James
           Earl Jones, Sidney Poitier, David Strathairn, Mary McDonnell.

Review by Emmanuel Goldstein

    If there's one thing we can determine right off the bat, its that Sneakers
is most deflniiely a fun film. But whether or not it is a hacker film is a
topic open to debate. A good many of the characlers are hackers, or former
hackers. And it is this skill which gives them the ability to do what they do:
get into things they're not supposed to be able to get into. The difference is
that these people do it for profit. And that fact alone is enough to make this
a non-hacker movie. Afar all, hackers don't do what they do with profit in
mind. But Sneakers is most definitely a film for hackers since there is so
much in the way of technique that is illustrated.

     The opening scene is a flashback to the ideologically correct era of anti-
war marches and draft card burnings. It's at that time that two hackers
(complete with rotary phones and an acoustic coupler) get into some major
trouble when they mess with Richard Nixon's bank account. The stage is set,
the time shifts to the present, and one of the hackers turns into Robert
Redford. He now runs a company that tests security, for a phenomenal fee.
(Some of our friends who actually do this kind of thing tell us that the fee
is absurdly low for that type of work.) His co-workers include a blind phone
phreak who has remarkable perceptive powers, a hopeless paranoid who's
convinced that everything is a plot of some kind, an ex-CIA agent who doesn't
like to talk about why he left, and a kid who changed his grades by computer,
no doubt after reading our Autumn 1989 issue. This mixed up bunch, played by a
well-above-average cast, is fodder for unique situations and dialogue. And
it's about time.

     The action centers around the group's quest for a magic box which can
supposedly decrypt any encryption scheme. "There isn't a government in the
world that wouldn't kill" for this kind of technology, they aptly surmise. The
existenco of this magic box is the one truly silly element of Sneakers.
Fortunately, the remaining technical issues contain only trivial flaws, such
as lack of a delay on a multi-satellite phone call or the fact that everybody
seems to use compatible equipment. We must recognize that Hollywood needs to
take some liberties with reality.

    As the group continues its quest for the Holy Box, they become caught up
in the whole FBI-CIA-NSA world. leaving the viewer with a less than
satisfactory judgment of how the world of intelligence works. This was without
doubt precisely the intention.

    In many ways, Sneakers is a political thriller and one which doesn't miss
an opportunity to throw some political barbs. George Bush and the Republican
Party are the favorite targets of this "culturally elitist" production. Again,
it's about time. 

    But best of all is the fact that Sneakers at no point tries to send a moral
message about hacking. Rather, hackers are looked upon as a reality; there are
people who do this kind of thing and they have a useful place in society. With
the kind of information being recorded these days, you need some of that
hacking ability to be able to figure out what's really happening. True. this
knowledge can be misused and distorted, as the film demonstrates. But that is
human nature. If the good hackers were to disappear, only the evil ones would
remain.

    Sneakers manages to send a serious message without taking itself too
seriously. In fact, the confrontation between the NSA bigwig (James Earl
Jones) and the group carrying the magic box is remarkably reminiscent of
Dorothy and friends meeting the wizard after getting the Wicked Witch of the
West's broomstick. A great man probably once said that the best way to send a
serious message is through humor. Sneakers does this and still keeps the
audience on the edge of their seats. 



      ------------------------------------------------------------------


    People are always wondering whether or not telephone company employees get
discounts on their phone bills. Well, we've discovered that NYNEX offers two
classes of what is known as Telephone Service Allowance (TSA). This allowance
can be used by NYNEX employees and their families for personal use as well as
NYNEX business. Forbidden activities include other businesses or political
campaign activities. The allowance only applies to the primary residence of
the employee. Class A service provides a 100 percent allowance while Class B
provides a 50 percent allowance. Those entitled to Class A status include
management employees, nonmanagement employees with 30 years or more, retired
employees on a service or disability pension, and employees with specified job
functions, particularly those on call 24 hours a day. Those entitled to Class
B generally include employees not eligible for Class A.

    C seems to be the programming language of the 90's. Its versatility
and ability for the same code to be used on different computer platforms
are the reasons for this. So in a brief burst of programming energy I
have created this little C virus. It's a basic overwriting virus that attacks
all .exe files in the directories off the main C directory. The virus spreads
itself by overwriting the virus code on top of the victim file. So the victim
file becomes yet another copy of the virus. So as not to reinfect, the
virus places a virus marker at the end of the victim file. Now I know that
this is not the best coding and that it could be improved and refined but
since I'm too lazy to do that you will just have to suffer.
    Now the legal stuff: Please do not use this virus to do any harm or
destruction, etc., etc. This virus is for educational use only and all that
good stuff. Have fun!


Hacker Crackdown: Law and Disorder on the Electronic Frontier
by Bruce Sterling
$23.00, Bantam Books, 313 pages
Review by The Devil's Advocate

    The denizens of cyberspace have long revered Bruce Sterling as one of
cyberfiction's earliest pioneers. Now, Sterling has removed his steel-edged
mirrorshades to cast a deep probing look into the heart of our modern-day
electronic frontier. The result is The Hacker Crackdown, the latest account of
the hacker culture and Sterling's first foray into non-fiction.

    At first glance, Crackdown would appear to follow in the narrative
footsteps of The Cuckoo's Egg and Cyberpunk. The setting is cyberspace, 1990:
year of the AT&T crash and the aftermath of Ma Bell's fragmentation; year of
Operation Sundevil, the Atlanta raids, and the Legion of Doom breakup; year of
the E911 document and the trial of Knight Lightning; year of the hacker
crackdown, and the formation of that bastion of computer civil liberties, the
Electronic Frontier Foundation. Unlike Cuckoo and Cyberpunk, however, Sterling's
work does not center around characters and events so much as the parallels
he draws between them. Crackdown is far less story and far more analysis.
Crackdown is also personal. Missing is the detached and unbiased aloofness
expected of a journalist. Intermingled with the factual accounts, for
instance, are Sterling's keen wit and insight:

    "In my opinion, any teenager enthralled by computers, fascinated by the
ins and outs of computer security, and attracted by the lure of specialized
forms of knowledge and power, would do well to forget all about hacking and
set his (or her) sights on becoming a Fed. Feds can trump hackers at almost
every single thing hackers do, including gathering intelligence, undercover
disguise, trashing, phone-tapping, building dossiers, networking, and
infiltrating computer systems...."

    Sterling is fair. He effectively gets into the psyche of hacker and
enforcer alike, oftentimes poking fun at the absurdity in both lines of
reasoning. To hackers he is honest and brutal: "Phone phreaks pick on the
weak." Before the advent of ANI, hackers exploited AT&T. Then they drifted to
the Baby Bells where security was less than stellar. From there it was a
gradual regression all the way down to local PBX's, the weakest kids on the
block,  and  certainly  not  the megacorporate entities that give rise to
"steal from the rich" Robin Hood excuses. To enforcers he is equally brutal,
charting a chronicle of civil liberty abuses by the FBI, Secret Service, and
local law enforcement agencies.

    Perhaps the best reason to read Crackdown is to learn what other books
have neglected to focus on: the abuses of power by law enforcement. Indeed, it
is these abuses that are the main focus of Sterling's work. One by one he
gives a grim account of the raids of 1990, the Crackdown or cultural genocide
that was to have as its goal the complete and absolute extinction of hacking
in all of its manifestations.

    On February 21, 1990, Robert Izenberg was raided by the Secret Service.
They shut down his UUCP site, seized twenty thousand dollars' worth of
professional equipment as "evidence," including some 140 megabytes of files,
mail, and data belonging to himself and his users. Izenberg was neither
arrested nor charged with any crime. Two years later he would still be trying
to get his equipment back.

    On March 1, 1990, twenty-one-year- old Erlk Bloodaxe was awakened by a
revolver pointed at his head. Secret Service agents seized everything even
remotely electronic, including his telephone. Bloodaxe was neither arrested
nor charged with any crime. Two years later he would still be wondering where
all his equipment went.

    Mentor was yet another victim of the Crackdown. Secret Service agents
"rousted him and his wife from bed in their underwear," and proceeded to seize
thousands of dollars' worth of work- related computer equipment, including his
wife's incomplete academic thesis stored on a hard disk. Two years later and
Mentor would still be waiting for the return of his equipment.

    Then came the infamous Steve Jackson Games raid. Again, no one was
arrested and no charges were filed. "Everything appropriated was officially
kept as 'evidence' of crimes never specified."

    Bruce Sterling explains (in an unusual first-person shift in the
narrative) that it was this raid above all else which compelled him to "put
science fiction aside until l had discovered what had happened and where this
trouble had come from."

    Crackdown culminates with what is perhaps the most stunning example of
injustice outside of the Steve Jackson raid. Although the trial of Knight
Lightning is over, its bittersweet memories still linger in the collective
mind of cyberspace. This, after all, was the trial in which William Cook
maliciously tried (and failed) to convict a fledgling teenage journalist for
printing a worthless garble of bureaucratic dreck by claiming that it was in
fact a $79,449 piece of "proprietary" code. In an effort to demonstrate the
sheer boredom and tediousness of the E911 document, and the absurdity of
Cook's prosecution, Crackdown includes a hefty sampling of this document (at a
savings of over $79,449 by Cook's standardsl).

    More than any other book to date, Crackdown concentrates on the political
grit and grime of computer law enforcement, answering such perennial favorites
as why does the Secret Service have anything to do with hackers anyway? In
Crackdown we learn that something of a contest exists between the Secret
Service and the FBI when it comes to busting hackers. Also touched upon are
the "waffling" First Amendment issues that have sprung forth from cyberspace.

    Crackdown is a year in the life of the electronic frontier. For some, a
forgotten mote of antiquity; for others, a spectral preamble of darker things
to come. But for those who thrive at the cutting edge of cyberspace,
Crackdown is certain to bridge those distant points of light with its account
of a year that will not be forgotten.



Dear 2600:
    I attended the Winter '92 Consumer Electronic Show in Las Vegas from
January 9-12 and saw few interesting new products. Although there were about
15,000 exhibits, there were maybe 1,000 computer related exhibits, and the
majority of those were power supply protection devices. I did see some
interesting computer security products. Some companies were pushing their
Caller ID devices and software. One software Caller ID system which was run on
an IBM compatible would pull up all the caller's pertinent information (name,
address, etc.) and digitized photo (if available) from a database for display
on the scneen (VIVE Synergies Inc., 30 West Beaver Creek Road, Unit 2,
Richmond Hill, Ontario L4B 3K1, Canada, phone (416) 882-6107). I also saw a
couple of regular Caller ID boxes and an integrated Caller ID phone with
speakerphone and memory dial and a 15 call digit incoming number memory
(SysPerfect Electronics of San Francisco, phone (415) 875-3550).

    One product I saw was designed to solve the problem concerning lack of
privacy on cellular phone calls for any phone call where security was a
concern. The Privacom P-25-C is a portable device which scrambles the audio
signal from your cellular or regular phone line to be descrambled by the same
device on the called end. The device offers 25 different scrambling codes
(which I see as pretty inadequate). To operate, the user dials his phone
normally. When the call is made and verification with the called party is
confirmed, a code is chosen and both parties place their receivers onto the
coupler of the device and pick up its handset. Conversation then continues
normally, all audio being scrambled before being sent over the line (or
through the air in the case of cellular phones). The device itself takes about
as much room as a portable cellular phone and runs continuously up to 20 hours
on battery power. (Swift Strike, Inc., PO Box 206, Galion, OH 44833, phone
(419) 468-1560. Additional sales and technical information: Addtel
Communications, (615) 622-8981 or 800-553-6870) 

    I went and visited the clowns at the Prodigy booth. I wouldn't have even
bothered but I felt this uncontrollable urge to confront them with the
allegations made against them concerning the Prodigy software scanning a user's
hard drive in search of address information for mailing purposes. Armed with
the inside knowledge out of the Autumn 1991 issue of 2600 that described how
Prodigy junk mail was received at a company addressed to non-existent
"people", I began to explain to them how the theory of their little invasion of
privacy seam was validated beyond reasonable doubt. They got pissed! "We never
did that," said one spokeswoman. "Do you believe everything you read?" asked
another, quite agitated spokesman. I walked off, leaving them there in their
angry and flustered state of loathing. Looking back I noticed them leering at
me. Every time after that when I walked by them they were still leering at me.
One must wonder, if they are so innocent of this accusation, why they became
so defensive rather than explain it away with amiable business tact. At any
rate, I had a good laugh making them squirm.

    In the Summer 1991 issue, TN wrote in telling of a way to place local calls
using the Radio Shack Tone Dialer Red Box, saying "I have found [it] to work
and have tested/it] all over Califomia." Apparently you did not travel very
far in your testing because it does not work in my area of Northern Califomia
(916 area code). While on the subject of the Red Box, recently a friend was
using it to call Hong Kong and encountered some interesting AT&T operator
shenanigans. Basically, by now it would be more than safe to conclude that
every phone company in the United States is aware of the Radio Shack Tone
Dialer conversion. AT&T must have some memo circulating stating proper
procedure for detecting and halting Red Box toll fraud. On one occasion, the
operator told my friend he was experiencing computer problems. He asked him to
insert 85 cents (my friend signalled four quarters with his Red Box) and then
claimed that it was not being received by his computer so he was going to
return it. My friend played along and told the operator he had received the
money back, although by that time he had realized he had not heard the
operator release signal nor the tell-tale click inside the phone of the hopper
relay. The operator asked him to insert the money again, which my friend did,
and then claimed, once again, to have retumed it, and asked my friend if he
got the money. This time, my friend said no, so the operator attempted again,
this time for real. My friend heard the operator release signal and a click
inside the payphone, and claimed he had gotten his coins back. "I'm going to
be polite about this," said the AT&T operator. "You have this little black box
with you that makes these sounds...." he continued. My friend didn't bother to
hear him out and simply hung up, which he regrets because who knows what he
may have learned. My friend said of the eight or so operators he dealt with
that night, three of them caught on to the Red Box. We must now ask ourselves
why. The answer doesn't require hours of study and research, as is painfully
obvious: the thing is too damn loud and too damn consistent. Also, it doesn't
help that the timing of the Red Box tones is off by a couple of milliseconds.
My suggestion? Place a bank card or credit card over the mouthpiece of the
phone to mute the volume of the tones to where they aren't so blatantly phony.
After all, the actual quarter tones as generated by the AT&T long distance
computers are barely audible themselves. Also, it wouldn't hurt to program
only one quarter in your priority memory and pound them out at inconsistent
intervals. Mind you, these suggestions are only necessary when dealing with
live operators as the long distance computers are far friendlier, which is
kind of scary when you think about it. Computers friendlier than live people.
If they didn't rely so heavily on their damned computers, they'd have the
current Red Box fad beat. But no, as it is, computers are infinitely more wise
than humans, so it continues. Yes, we live in a sad world. Oh well.
                DC


Sheer Frustration
Dear 2600:
    I have entitled the following Modern Times - A Drama in Too Many Acts.

    1st Act: Reading the 2600 Magazine of Autumn 1991 I found on page 26 a
letter from GS, Seattle: "Bellcore has a new publications listing. The Catalog
of Technical Information." With one eye on the mag and one on the phone I
dialed the 800 number given. But the only thing I heard was a German tape
telling me to check the number or call the operator. Oh no! These are the
Nineties, the Digital Decade!

    2nd Act: I finally called the operator and explained my problem. "What? I
can't believe that. You can dial every number directly!" was the answer.
Insisting on my not being deaf and dumb, I gave the number to her. "Okay, I'll
try it for you. But that will cost extra! Stay at your phone, I'll call you
back." 

    3rd Act: Some minutes later my phone rang. Operator: "I can't get
through... sorry. You may call the Intemational Telephone Number Information
for a local number." What a concept, not knowing the address or even the city!

    4th Act: A quick look at my private "Toll-free Telephone Number Database"
revealed an AT&T USA Direct connection to an operator in the States. Not very
hopefully I dialed the number and bingo! He wouldn't do a damned thing for me
without having an AT&T Calling Card! 

    5th Act: Eventually I found the toll-free number from Germany to AT&T in
Kansas City. The nice lady told me that there are no AT&T offices in Germany
(why are they placing their ads here all the time?) and that I need a Visa Card
to get a Calling Card. 

    6th Act: Still not ready for surrender, I tried to get a local number.
For the needed address I wanted to call "Telename of Springfield, VA (same
issue, page 31). You surely can imagine what happened: "Your call cannot be
completed as dialed...." The Telename numbcr is a 900 number!

    7th Act: I sent a fax (this one) to 2600 Magazine, asking for help. So
please print a local telephone number for Bellcore in your next issue, or at
least an address. Thank you. 
                Germany

    The number in question, 800-521-2673, translates to 908-699-5800 or 908-699-
    5802. We'll try to print translations in the future.

Mild Encryption
Dear 2600:.
    I just purchased one of the Motorola cordless (not cellular) phones which
is manketed as having "secure clear" - a method of mild grade voice
ecncryption of the radio portion.

    Some friends and I listened in with our receivers and the audio is indeed
extremely difficult for casual monitoring. It would, however, be trivial for
any serious agency or corporate type to break through, but then again those
are the people who'd be doing other things as well. 

    In short, it does provide moderate levels of security. In effect, you're
getting "wire grade" pmtection over a condless link.

    The price is quite a bit high - about $200-$250, depending on store,
features, etc.
                Danny
                New York

Cable Hacking
Dear 2600:
    I've hacked my way through the phone system, computers attached to modems,
locks, etc. Now I'm interested in the cable company. Manhattan Cable in
particular. How do those addressable converter boxes work, anyhow? How does the
central office turn on pay-per-view for my box? Has anyone hacked this system
and, if so, can you please publish some info so I don't have to redo all the
work?  My interest is purely in hacking to understand and learn, not to steal
service!
                Lawrence
                NYC

Dear 2600:
    I am a subscriber and really enjoy your magazine. I especially love your
do-it-yourself Radio Shack projects. I have a request for one of your upcoming
issues. I was wondering if you could put in some instructions and schematics
on how to cheaply build a Cable TV pay channel "descrsmbler". 
                Anonymous


    Future writers: this is what the people want!

A Phone Mystery
Dear 2600:
    I just started reading your wonderful periodical two issues ago. I saw
your Autumn 1991 issue at a local bookstore here in town. I picked up the
magazine and was very excited. You see, l have been BBSing for a few years
now, and have always been interested in everything you guys cover. 

    I've got a story. My father used to use my current bedroom when I was
little as his office. When he moved into a real office he had the separate
line for the room disconnected. Soon after, I moved into the room. I didn't
pay much attention to the outlet in my room because I thought it was just
hooked up to the main house line. About eleven years after we got the line
disconnected, I decided to see if it worked. I called a friend and was
excited. I thought to myself I could now have a phone in my room. I then
called my house line and it wasn't busy. My mother picked up the line and we
talked for a while. 

    From what I could tell, Ma Bell just forgot to unplug the line and never
charged us for it. This was all before I knew any better and before I got into
hacking. 

    Then one day I picked up the phone to call a friend and there was a guy on
the line. I didn't say anything until I think he said something to the effect
of "Jeff, is that you?"     replied back that I wasn't Jeff and hung up. I was
kinda scared to use the line for a while, but a few weeks later I really had
to get ahold of somebody and my sister was on the house line. I picked up the
phone in my room and there was that same guy on it. I never got a chance to
use the line again because a few months later my parents gave me a phone line
for me to use in my room. When the new line was all hooked up the old line
wouldn't work. I didn't think about it all that much until recently.

    My question is, does this happen a lot? I mean is Ma Bell really so big
that they can forget about a line for over a decade? If I was older, or if I
knew any better, I could have really raised some major hell.
                The Psychedellc Sloth
                Oregon

    This kind of thing happens all the time. In fact, odds are if you move
    into a new house and plug in a phone, you'll be connected to someone else's
    line. That is what happened to you. Your old line was disconnected. The
    phone company does not "forget" about phone numbers for ten years. What
    they do instead is hook wires (cable pairs) together at a junction box,
    serving area interface, or the frame itself so that the same line shows up
    in two different places. Why? Because they make lots of mistakes. It's
    happened here at 2600 twice in the past few years. A good clue is when
    someone beats you to answering the phone when there's nobody else
    around. Or when you start getting messages for non-existent people on your
    answering maclune. Keep this in mind next time the phone company claims
    that you're responsible for anything dialed on your line. And remember
    that any conversation, wire or radio, can be easily monitored,
    accidentally or on purpose.

Info
Dear 2600:
    ANAC for 313 is 2002002002 - at least this works in most areas. Also 313
loops are usually xxx- 9996/xxx-9997.
                Erreth Akbe/Energy!

Many Questions
Dear 2600:
    Four issues of 2600 and I still want more. I've never been more impressed
by a magazine. Keep up the good work!

    Here are a few questions that I'd appreciate an answer to:

    1) In the parts lists for the FM wireless transmitter and the FM telephone
transmitter, three parts listed aren't in the schematics. On page 44, C7 and
C8 (22pF and 1.0nF) and on page 45, C7 (22pF). Do these discrepancies affect
the functioning of either device? 

    2) What is the product number of the Radio Shack phone dialer? Is there
anything more to the construction of the red box than crystal swapping? If so,
what?

    3) I'm rather new to the hack/phreak scene. Could you recommend the years
of back issues with the most information on a) the Internet and b) phreaking?

    4) Can you recommend a good book to learn electronics from?

    5) Can you suggest magazines which offer information similar to that found
in 2600 and are ordered hardcopy through the mail as opposed to found on the
Net?

    6) I'm severely lacking in my knowledge of "boxes". I'd like an
explanation of each of the more common types - if not schematics as well. I
understand beige, red, black, and green boxes. But, for instance, what are the
advantages of a blue box? Is there a formula for deciding which crystals
should be used for which tones (3.58 for DTMF, 6.5536 for red box, 4.1521 for
green box)? Does it vary with the device you put the crystal in? Is there a
general schematic that can be used with different crystals to produce
dffferent tones ?

    7) A few years ago (before I bocame interested in hack/phreaking) I saw
part of a movie in which an oscilloscope (I think) was used to determine MAC
or some kind of ATh/[ codes while the machine processed transactions. Does
this process have any workability?
                The Ronin
                Pennsylvanla

    The monitoring devices should work if you follow the schematics; The Radio
    Shack model number for the tone dialer is 43-141 but it's now rumored to
    have been discontinued. There is no modification other than replacing the
    crystal.

    We've been publishing phreaking information throughout all of our issues.
    The frequency hasn't changed but the particulars certainly have. Internet
    news is more prevalent in our later issue.

    Some good books to learn electronics from: Basic Electronics Theory by
    Delton Horn, published by TAB Books; Forrest M. Mims III Engineer's
    Mini-Notebook series available at Radio Shack; Understanding Solid State
    Electronics, sold at Radio Shack. Manufacturers' data books are free
    (Motorola, etc.) and you can learn an awful lot from them. Try calling some
    toll free numbers and asking.

    If any good hacker magazines come our way, we'll print the information.
    Recently, it's been pretty dry. These numbers may help for DTMF: For a
    5089 chip, first row, crystal divided by 5152; second row, 4648; third
    row, 4200;fourth row, 3808;first column, 2968; second column, 2688; third
    column, 2408, fourth column, 2184.

    Finally, oscilloscopes are for measuring waveforms, and generally not for
    eavesdropping. It's also very likely that any signal from an ATM would be
    encrypted.

Dear 2600:.
    First of all, you have a great magazine so don't change a thing/However, I
just recently received a bunch of back issues, so pardon me if some of these
questions are outdated or have been answered already.

    1) How can I help 2600 grow (besides the obvious of sending you money)? I
would like to do some sort of volunteer work for you guys, but that may pose a
small problem since I live a few thousand miles from New York.

    2) Is E.T. considered an honorary phone phreak?

    3) What is the ANAC number for the 515 area code?

    4) What can you tell me about your cover artist (Holly Kaufman Spruch)?

    5) Please explain to me why it takes six weeks for you guys to process
orders for hack issues. It should only take about two weeks tops. And that's
third class mail. If I decide to shell out maybe $75 for back issues, then
I want the "invaluable" information (that I don't already know) as soon
as possible, and don't want to wait a month and a half for it! This is very
frustrating, and I would also like some other readers' opinions on this.

    6) I sympathize with Kevin Mitnick in the Summer '91 issue, In plain
English, he got shafted. I'm not saying that he's completely innocent, but
the authors of the book Cyberpunk did write unfairly about him.
    7) How about writing an article listing all of the known phreak boxes,
what they can do, and if they can be used today. List all of the major
ones like blue, red, green, and black boxes and then list the lesser known
ones like the gold, cheese, diverti, aqua, etc.

    8) Would it be possible to put together a big gathering of phreaks in some
unknown exchange like the "2111" conference in the October 1971 Esquire
article "Secrets of the Little Blue Box"? To me that is what phreaking is
all about - helping other phreaks. By the way, I do know that you can't use
a blue box to do this anymore, but you inventive folks should be able to
come up with something that would work. If you did this however, you would
have to tell phreaks about it through word of mouth, as I'm sure many
telco security personnel read your magazine.

    9) I really enjoyed the "Hacker Reading List" in the Winter '90 issue.
However, it was slightly incomplete - you forgot magazine articles. Below
is a small list of hacker/phreak related articles that I have come across.
A larger list is available at the back of the book Cyberpunk. Also, a very
good book that Dr. Williams left out of the book list is called The Phone
Book and the author is J. Edward Hyde. To find these, just go to your
local library and see if they have the hack issues. However, they might
not have them as far back as '72, so you will have to use their microfiche.
I personally found most of these at a college library.

    Esquire, October 1971, "Secrets of the Little Blue Box".
    Esquire, December 1990, "Terminal Delinquents".
    Ramparts, June 1972, "Regulating the Phone Company in Your Home".
    Ramparts, July 1972, "How the Phone Company Interrupted Our Service".
    Radio Electronics, November 1987, "The Blue Box and Ma Bell".
    L.A. Weekly, July 18-24 1980, "The Phone Art of Phone Phreaking".
    Rolling Stone, September 19 1991, "Samurai Hackers".
    Playboy, October 1972, "Take That, You Soulless S.O.B.".
    Oui, August 1973, "The Phone Phreaks' Last Stand".
    Time, March 6 1972, "Phoney Tunes".
                Clark Kent
                Ames, IA

    You don't have to be anywhere near us to help out. You can send us
    information, articles, and anything else that comes to mind. You can
    contribute to the discussion on our voice BBS and start other forums on
    hacking throughout the country. By letting people know there is a place
    for them to contribute, you'll be opening up a lot of minds that are just
    waiting to be liberated. It may not be quite that poetic but you get the
    idea. We don't talk about E.T., we will talk about the .515 ANAC when we
    find it, and we can't talk about Holly Kaufmun Spruch. We agree that back
    issue orders take too long und we've taken some steps to alleviate the
    situation, including luring people whose only concern in life is to speed
    the process. Keep in mind that it takes our bank up to three weeks to
    notify us if a check has bounced or is unacceptable for some other stupid
    reason. That's why we're not too keen on sending out back issues until
    we're sure we've actually gotten paid. We could send out cash orders quicker
    but then too many people would send cash in the mail, whuch is a pretty
    risky thing in itself. We're hoping for a maximum of three to four weeks
    from start to finish. Our authors and hopefully other readers have taken
    note of your other ideas. Thanks for the info.


An Opinion
Dear 2600:
    I was reading an article from an issue of 2600 called "How Phone Phreaks
Are Caught" and it gave me a lot of insight, and I thought I should contribute
some. On many "elite" BBS's they have many files on how not to get caught
phreaking and what precautions to take (including this file). Files like that
are what will keep some phreaks in the clear and out of trouble. Most files,
like "Phreaking Made E-Z" (fictitious file, but used just to illustrate my
point), just say, "Okay, at the prompt, just type in...." etc. But the
phreakers need to know all the theory behind it. 

    Also included in the file was some of the Spring edition of 2600, and it
had an article about a "crackdown". It's kinda scary, but very tme. I myself
am not too quick to let people know that "I phreak", and am extremely
reluctant to show anyone my files (in other words, I don't) on phreaking,
hacking, etc. 

    But crackdowns like this can help phreaks. It will make them so paranoid
that they will all band together and create tings of correspondence, banding
everyone together. 

    Violent actions, like what happened to Steve Jackson Games, are pretty
scary to think about. I mean, should I be worried if I send someone e-mail over
America Online, and mention h/p/a/v, or a "phreaking" term? It's things like
this that can spread from the E911 doc and such.

    Thanks for letting me voice my opinion and I'd also like to subscribe to
2600, for it seems to be the only printed mag that actually tells the truth.
                TC
                Blauvelt, NY

    Don't be concerned about what you talk about in e-mail. The only thing you
    should really be worried abaut is submitting to hysteria, paranoia, ar
    self-censorship.


The Facts on ACD
Dear 2600:
    Thanks goes out to Dr. Abuse and the designer of the magnetic stripe card
copier (printed in the Summer 1991 issue). Another thanks goes out to the Mad
Scientist, whose article fmally encouraged me to mess around with my silver
box. While experimenting with it and the Automated Call Distributor on some
payphones in Boston, Massachusetts, I got some different results than the Mad
Scientist did. They are as follows:

    1: Ring toll test board/loud busy
    2: Tone side - loop (high)
    3: Loud busy
    4: Dead/loud busy
    5: Loud busy
    6: Dead
    7: Dead
    8: Doesn't trigger anything (pulsing dialtone continues)
    9: Doesn't trigger anything (pulsing dialtone continues)
    O: Tone blast (1000 hz)
    *: Doesn't trigger anything (pulsing dialtone continues)
    #: Doesn't trigger anything (pulsing dialtone continues)

    I was wondering what the real purpose of the ACD was, because the features
it can achieve don't seem greatly important. I have also experimented with the
other tones (A, B, and C), but have not acquired any information.

    Secondly, while travelling in Belgium and Amsterdam last summer, I came
across a few electronics stores and a bookstore which had many interesting
items. I picked up one dialer, which is about 2" by 2" square and a 1/4"
thick, which has the 0-9, *, #, and A,B,C,D tones, which is what I use for my
silver box. It cost the equivalent of about $15-$20 US currency. There were
also some other types of dialers there too, all small and compact. In case
anyone was interested in ordering one of these dialers (I recommend it, they
are great), it is called the 'TD-1000 Digitale Toonkiezer" by Betacom. Try
writing or calling there two places: 

    1 ) Teleworld Telecommunicatieshops
        Kinkerstrsat 66-68-70
        1053 DZ Amsterdam
        The Netherlands
        Phone: +31-20-6834001

    2)  S. A. Kevinco N.V.
        Rue du Marche aux Herbes - 4 - Grasmarkt
        Bruxelles 1000 Belgium
        +32-2-2187159

    Also, if you happen to go into Amsterdam, and want to pick up current and
back issues of Hack-Tic (learn Dutch just to read this publication, it's
great), 80 to either of the following bookstores: Athenaeum Nieuwscentmm,
Amsterdam; Athenaeum Boekhandel, Amsterdam, Haarlem.

    This next comment is in regards to the letter from Dr. Delam on page 25 of
the Spring 1992 issue. He commented about making a red box with a mercury
switch for "pig-proof" access to the 6.5536mhz and 3.57mhz crystals. To go
more in depth with that, I will explain some of a text file that Cybametik
wrote up a few months back on that topic. You will need two mercury switches,
preferably very small, so they will fit into the dialer casing. Connect one
lead of one of the mercury switches to one of the leads of the 3.57mhz
crystal, and the other existing leads to the two solder marks on the dialer PC
board (where the original 3.57mhz crystal existed). Next, connect one lead of
the other mercury switch to one lead of the 6.5536mhz crystal, and connect the
two unconnected leads to the two solder marks on the dialer PC board (there
should now be four leads on the two marks). Now, in order for the mercury
switch action to work, you have to make sure that the mercury switches are
facing opposite directions (vertically), so when you tum the dialer backwards,
one crystal should connect with the board, and when you tum it the other way,
the other crystal should connect. Well, I hope that cleared things up a bit in
the way of mercury switches. 

    And lastly, some ANACs are: Boston and surrounding areas: 200-xxx-1234,
200-222-2222; N.W. Indiana: 410-4 (x12).
                Kingpin
                Brookline, MA

    With regards to the Automated Call Distributor, whenever you call
    directory assistance, you're actually dialing into a queueing system which
    is known as the ACD. This system is simply what determines who is free to
    pick up your call. By pressing the D key while they pick up, you enter a
    test mode on the ACD. It's not meant to be interesting or exciting to
    anyone outside of the phone company.


Cellular Mystery
Dear 2600:.
    I was wondering if yon could answer this question. Local telephone
people and our RCMP have been adding an E-Promchip to their cellular phones.
Generally they are added to a Techniphone (British brand ofcellular).  They
have been designed to accept the chip easily.  Everyone has gone hush-hush on
this. Can you tell me what practical applications can be done with it?
                Nova Scotia

    It's probably for the purpose of changing the ESN (Electronic Serial
    Number) and the MIN (Mobile Identifcation Number). It could abo be an ANI
    of some sort so the dispatcher knows who's talking. Then again, it could
    be for speech encryption. The best way to see if it's the latter is to get
    the frequency (use a frequency counter) and listen in with a scanner. Good
    luck.


Call For Data
Dear 2600:
    Do you have any plans for doing a list of CNA's? Michigan (313) went
automated a while back. The number is 424-0900. A three-digit employee number
is required. When I was in Chicago md browsing through their ANAC's, I found
an interesting phenomenon. It returned a barst of DTMF. I didn't have a decoder
so I can't be sure what it meant. Finally, the demon dialer as advertised in
your Winter 1991 issue works great. C'est bon. Hell, c'est tres bon. I highly
recommend it. Expect an article soon on boxing out of foreign countries.
                The Azure Mage
                Somewhere in the Military

    When we get the info, we'll print it.


Call For Info
Dear 2600:
    I was reading an article in your summer edition and it talked about a
magazine called Mobile Computing. Could you please tell me how I can get in
touch with them?
                JS


    We can't track down a number or address for them at the moment. But you
    should also look in Computer Shopper if you want it~ro on lap tops.


Call For Help
Dear 2600:
    I run a BBS for the disabled called DEN (Disabilities Electronic Network).
Until recently we had an 800 number accessing an eight line hunt group. It was
a very lively national bulletin board. Our 800 number is in limited service
indefinitely as a result of our loss of funding. This has been the cause of a
search for long distance services that our users would make use of to access
DEN. I found PC Pursuit by Sprint. PC Pursuit is a non-prime time service that
allows 90 hours per month for disabled people and 30 hours per month for non-
disabled people for $30. The service enables one to access many electronic
services during non-prime time hours and weekends while not changing your
present long distance provider. Are you, or anyone at 2600, aware of other
such low cost services? I'm desperate to find low cost access for our users.
We're a free service and it would be a shame if our phone companies' greed
affected our ability to deliver a service to the disabled community. 
                New Jersey


    The call has gone out.

A Choke Tip
Dear 2600:
    In regards to the "choke line" discussion in relation to reaching radio
stations (2600, Spring 1992), I have found that dialing a carrier access code
prior to the phone number increases the chances of getting through to a radio
station. This does result in a long distance charge but it may be worth the
risk, if one desires the prize greatly enough. 
                The Prophet
                Canada


Mail Problems
Dear 2600:
    Due to the problems with non-delivered issues, I have decided not to renew
my subscription to 2600. I think I've averaged at least one missing issue per
year of my subscription. This is not pleasant, especially with a quarterly
publication. 
    I doubt this is due to any incompetence on your part, but rather because of
sticky-fingered postal employees. They see The Hacker Quarterly pass in front
of them and think "Hmmm, I think I'll read this during lunch..." and who knows
where the hell it winds up after that.  Playboy remedied this some time ago by
mailing the magazine in an opaque plastic bag with a transparent section for
the address label on the magazine itself. Also, the return address has only
the mailing address, no tell-tale "Playboy" logo screaming "Steal me!".
    I will continue to support your magazine through newsstand and back issue
sales (please make them available on an individual issue basis).
                RD
                Austin, TX

    This definitely should not be happening. We have been having more of a
    problem with damaged issues, missing issues, and envelopes ripped open
    than ever before. Overall, the post office has done an amazing job but
    we're very concerned with this recent plummet in competence and/or honesty.
    We hope our readers complain loudly if anything happens to their mail.
    It would help a lot if anybody sending a letter of complaint sent as a
    copy so we can present it to the postal people on our end. Rest assured
    this is a top priority matter for us. We'd rather not add packaging to the
    magazine, for both cost and ecological reasons. We're interested in
    hearing more feedback on this. With regards to our back issues, individual
    issues are available from 1988 on at a cost of $6.25 each ($7.50 overseas).
    1984 through 1987 are only available by year ($25, $30 overseas).


Comments From Abroad
Dear 2600:
    Like many others, I'd noticed your Postnet example didn't correspond with
your description, and I'm even more delighted to see your C code for printing
them (I only have to modify it to suit my computer).

    The "Gulf War Printer Virus" expresses pretty much my reaction - that is,
it wouldn't work! Unlike your anonymous writer, I expressed this opinion on
the Intemet and received some interesting information in January. Although
most newspapers and computer magazines credited the original article to the
Wall Street Journal, it appears the "real" original article was in InfoWorld in
the April 1, 1991.issuel We need not ascribe to the nefarious operations of
the NSA what can be adequately blamed on the idiocy of certain reporters.

    On the other hand, could a "printer virus" slow down a computer? I'd
imagine it could, provided the computer was something relatively slow, like an
IBM XT or possibly AT. It all really depends on how they treat their parallel
printer port. If they generate interrupts upon receipt of a printer
acknowledge signal, then you merely need to rig the printer to blast the
acknowledge line at, say, 30 kilohertz. This would probably keep most CPUs
fairly busy, and slow down the performance nicely.
                EL
                Faulconbrldge, Australia


Dear 2600:
    We just heard about your mag and think it's a wonderful idea - finally a
means by which we chip-heads can get in touch without spending loads of money
on phone bills. See, we got much electronic shit to denounce even here in the
ole continent, without mentioning the fucking growing corporate trash and the
expanding neo-nazi movement. 

    But we ain't much organized over here; that's why we need you guys to give
us a starting point. We'll go on from there. We ain't many either - but we
dunno how many are on the biz, became it's quite difficult to find 'em all -
but a steadily growing number anyway. We wish you a most "productive" work. 
                DF
                Milan Italy

BBS Update
Dear 2600:
    I am the sysop of the Tin Shack BBS at (818) 992- 3321. I have an ad in
the Spring 1992 edition offering free elite access to all 2600 readers. I would
like to thank you for publishing this ad and I'd like to thank the many
hackers who are calling our BBS. I have enjoyed the CHATs and messages from
your readers. We are starting an exclusive hackers conference and including a
hackers filebase in this conference for sharing of code and text on the fine
art of hacking that has continued to enhance the science of computing. We have
also attracted the attention of a law enforcement agency from New York. This
was easily detected as they were shying away from caller verification and then
stupidly sending me a check for Elite Access paid out by their operating
account of their home office. What a deal! Since we know our rights and hold
no illegal wares I publicly thank them for helping us to buy new hardware!
Hahaha! The message base in our new hackers conference will be current and
quite interesting. If you are a real hacker, give us a call. No wannabes,
phonies, or pheds allowed on the Tin Shack BBS.
                

    If you're promoting free speech and aren't doing anything illegal, there's
    no reason to disallow anyone.

Voice Mail Question
Dear 2600:
    How come your voice BBS is only open after 11 pm? Also, why do you give
out an expensive 0-700 number instead of a real phone number?
                Puzzled

    First off, the 0-700 number costs 15 cents a minute. A regular phone
    number would cost 13 cents a minute. While slightly more, this is not
    comparable to a 900 number or anything of that natare. We give out that
    number because right now the system doesn't have a set phone number; it
    sometimes shows up on different lines. It's only available at night
    because it's currently a single-line system and opening the BBS during the
    day would tie up the voice mail functions. Right now we're working on
    expanding the system so that it shows up on our main number (516-751-
    2600) and so that the BBS part is available around the clock with multiple
    lines. To do this, we need to find some flexible multi-line voice mail
    software along with some cheap computers. If anyone has any suggestions,
    please send them our way. For now. the voice BBS can be reached through AT&T
    at 0-700-751-2600. Most of our writers can be reached through the voice
    mail section of that number, which is available 24 hours a day. During
    business hours, the rate of the 0-700 number is 25 cents a minute. (Don't
    worry, we're not making a penny off of this!)



      ------------------------------------------------------------------


                     2600 NOW HAS A VOICE BBS THAT OPERATES
                    EVERY NIGHT BEGINNING AT 11:00 PM EASTERN
                   TIME. FOR THOSE OF YOU THAT CAN'T MAKE IT TO
                   THE MEETINGS, THIS IS A GREAT WAY TO STAY IN
                       TOUCH. CALL 0700-751-2600 USING AT&T.
                   (IF YOU DON'T HAVE AT&T AS YOUR LONG DISTANCE
                   COMPANY, PRECEDE THE ABOVE NUMBER WITH 10288).
                 THE CALL COSTS 15 CENTS A MINUTE AND IT ALL GOES
                  TO AT&T. YOU CAN ALSO LEAVE MESSAGES FOR 2600
                    WRITERS AND STAFF PEOPLE AROUND THE CLOCK.


      ------------------------------------------------------------------


                         hacking on the front line
                               by AI Capone

    As we have seen from previous raids/busts, the consequences of being
caught by the federal govemment, etc. are not worth it in the long run. If
they cannot cripple you physically, then they will do it emotionally or
financially. Therefore I do not recommend that any action taken to gain
unauthorized access is justifiable in any way. However the choice is yours.

    People who desire to get into a "secure" system should know a few things
about it. First off. for me the word "secure" brings to mind a picture of a
human monitoring a system for 24 hours. All the nodes are watched
individually, and everything is hardcopied. This is obviously, in most (if not
all) cases, not feasible, as the man hours and/or the cash funding is non-
existent. Besides, to a system operator, watching everything a system does
could be quite boring. The hacker can capitalize on this.

    The two things a hacker should know about when attempting to gain access
to a system are:

    1. Typical formats for the system. (i.e. how you type in the login
sequence. Is the login and password on one continuous line, do you have to
type it in separately at different prompts, etc.)

    2. Default and common passwords. Default accounts are the accounts that
come with the system when it is installed ("factory accounts"). Common
accounts are accounts set up by the system operator for particular tasks. The
probability exists that these accounts are present on the system that the
hacker is trying to penetrate, therefore they should be tried.

                       Identifying the System
    If the owner of the system is not mentioned in the opening banner, you will
either have to gain access to the system itself or use CNA (Customer Name and
Address - the little thing that exists for identifying a telephone number).
Please remember that a brute force method on some systems is often recorded to
the account indicating the number of attempts that you have tried, sometimes
even writing the password that you've tried. More often than not, it will just
record the number of failed attempts. Aside from this, the system may "sound
an alarm". This is not a bell or siren that goes off; it is just a message
printed out and/or sent to any terminals designated as security operator
terminals (i.e. VMS). Example: 

Welcome to Sphincter Systems Vax Cluster
Username: CHEESEHEAD
Password:

Welcome to Sphincter Systems, Mr. Mouse
Number of failed attempts since last entry: 227

    Obviously, in the above example, Mr. Mouse would get the idea that someone
was attempting to gain access to his account and would promptly change the
password, assuming he was paying attention at login (Many people don't.
Logging into my favorite BBS, I have often left the room while my auto-login
macro was accessing the system. The same principle applies here.) Also, in the
above example, it was very stupid for Sphincter Systems to display the banner
identifying the system. This would only encourage the hacker in an attempt to
gain access (it always encouraged me), and at 227 attempts, the hacker should
have kept trying to gain access. Remember that once the account is accessed
correctly, the security counter is reset to zero and Mr. Mouse will probably
never know that someone else has his password (as long as no malicious or
destructive actions are carried out-and as long as he doesn't keep a record
of his login dates).

    When I was scanning a network, I often found that most of the systems
identified themselves. On the other hand, the systems I found in most
telephone exchanges required that they be identified by other means. The
banner usually decided my interest in the system, whether I just wanted to
try a few things and move on, or really concentrate on the effort. It also
gave me a little extra ammunition since usernames and/or passwords may contain
some information which was displayed in the banner. Another thing I noticed
about networks that differed from local dial-in systems was that dial-in
systems would disconnect me after three to five attempts. Granted, the system
on the network would disconnect me, but only from the host. The network itself
would not, creating one less problem to deal with. System operators might
suspect something if they saw an outdial number being accessed every thirty
seconds or so. 

Login:
Password:
(This is a Unix.)

Username:
Password:
(This is a VMS.)

@
(This is a Tops-20.)

Enter Usercode/Password
(This is a Burroughs.)

MCR]
(This is an RSX-11.)

ER!
(This is a Prime.)

.
(This is an IBM running a VM operating system.)

    This list is by far not complete, as there are many more systems out
there, but it will get you started. Some of the time, it will tell you the
name in the opening. Crays, for example, usually identify themselves.

                           The Telephone
    Make sure when you are dialing into the system that you realize that
somewhere along the trail there is a possibility of a trace. With all of the
switching systems in effect by Bell, etc. what you need to do is dial in using
an outside source. For instance, what I usually did was call an 800 extender
(not in Feature Group D), and then call the target system. The only times I
called the target system direct was when I was identifying the system (I did
not start hacking the system at this time), but even this is not recommended
these days. Things owned by Bell, such as COSMOS systems, SCCS networks, etc.,
are probably more risky than generic corporate systems. Of course using only
one extender should be the least of what you can do. If you call several
extenders and then the target system, the chances are that tracing the call
back to you will be next to impossible. But this method also is risky since
the long distance telephone company may not be overly enthused about you
defrauding them. At one time an acquaintance was harassing a company that was
tracing him. They let him know of the trace and just for the hell of it he
decided to stay on the line to see the results. The result was Paris, France.
Keep in mind he lives in the United States. This story displays an excellent
use of extenders. The only detriment I see is that by routing your call
through two or more extenders the integrity of the line decreases. 

    When using networks (Telenet, Tymenet, etc.) in connecting to the system,
your port is sent as an ID in order to accept your connection attempt. It
would really be simple then to isolate your number (providing you called the
network directly from your house) if you repeatedly attempt to use the system.
What you should do for this problem is loop through a gateway on the network.
The gateway is essentially an outdial which will connect to a system. Use the
gateway to call another network's dialup.

                             Common Passwords
    The following is a list of common passwords for various systems. On a
respectable system, these will be constantly changed. But not all system
managers are smart or security conscious. The first system that I got into was
by using a common account (no password was needed in this case, just the Unix
"uucp" as a username). Sometimes systems are put up and completely left alone.
It seems the managers think that nobody will find the system. In my case, the
system was kept current, and I had "uucp" privileges to the School Board
computer. Remember, as long as you don't do anything that damages or destroys
data, they probably will never know that you have been there.

                    Common Accounts for the Primos System
    Prime
    Admin
    Games
    Test
    Tools
    System
    Rje
    Guest
    Netman
    Cmdnco
    Primos
    Demo
    Regist
    Prirun
    Telenet

                      Common Accounts for the VM/CMS System
    Operator
    Cmsbatch1
    Autolog1
    Operatns
    Vmtest
    Vmutil
    Maint
    Smart
    Vtam
    Erep
    Rscs
    Cms
    Sna

                    Common Accounts for the VAX/VMS System
    Vax
    Vms
    Dcl
    Demo
    Test
    Help
    News
    Guest
    Decnet
    Systest
    Uetp
    Default
    User
    Field
    Service
    System
    Manager
    Operator

                  Common Accounts for the Unix System
    root
    uucp
    nuucp
    daemon
    who
    guest
    io
    com
    bin
    sys
    informix
    uucpmgr
    adm
    profile
    trouble
    intro
    rje
    hello
    Ip
    setup
    powerdown
    uname
    makefsys
    mountfsys
    checkfsys
    umountfsys

    This should give you an idea on where to start.

                            Combinations
    The combinations to get into a system are nearly infinite. If the password
needed to get into the system is something like "FRM;UN!DA" then the chances
are extremely remote that you will get in. Multiply the following: the number
of tries where you use the username as the password by the variations of a
word (i.e. for "CMSBATCH" passwords could be "Batch" or "BATCHCMS"). Now add
on names and wild guesses. This should give you quite a list. All you can do
is exhaust your list of username/password combinations and move on. You have
done your best as far as trial and error hacking is concerned. Trashing for
printouts is also an option.

    Druidic Death at one time surveyed a VM/CMS system's unencrypted password
file and wrote the results down as categories. This is a list of his findings:

    Total number of system users: 157
    Total number of accounts that can't be logged into: 37
    Total number of passwords that are a form of the account name: 10
    Total number of passwords that are the same as the account's name: 3
    Total number of passwords that are a related word to the account name: 10
    Total number of passwords that are first names, not the user's own: 17
    Total number of passwords that are the user's first name: 19
    Total number of passwords that are words related to the user's job: 7
    Total number of passwords that are the name of the company: 1
    Total number of random character passwords: 1
    Total number of passwords that are, in some format, calendar dates: 32
    Total number of passwords that were unchanged defaults: 7

    This should give you an idea of how things are placed in a major corporate
computer.
                               Imagination
    This is what you need to gain access to an account. Being a number cruncher
just won't do it anymore. In the following segment, I will list out ideas with
about 20 or 30 examples in each. This article will get you going. You just have
to finish the job.

                         Common First and Last Names
    These can readily be obtainable out of the telephone book, the greatest
source of all first and last names. Examples:
    Gus
    Dave
    Chris
    Michele
    Jessica
    Arthur
    Robert
    Patrick
    Arnold
    Benjamin
    Derek
    Eddie
    Shannon
    Richard
    Ross
    Keith
    William
    Bubba
    Mickey
    Clyde
                                 Colors
    Figure it out for yourself, everything is possible. Examples:
    Blue
    Black
    Orange
    Red
    Yellow
    Purple
    Magenta
    Green

                                The Dictionary
    The single most important document. Everyone should have one, and if you
do not have one get one. Many passwords are at your disposal. And, by all
means when on a Unix, download/usr/dict/words, the online dictionary. I also
believe that you should not limit your words to just the English versions.
There is no reason why passwords cannot be in Spanish, French, etc.

                              Types of Cars
    Pontiac
    Ford
    Chevy
    Buick
    Toyota
    Honda
    Ferrari
    Porsche

Motorcycles and all venue of transportation can be included in this segment.

                                Rock Bands
    Zeppelin
    Pink floyd
    Hendrix
    REM
    Cream
    Ozzy
    Gunsroses
    Mozart
    Publicenemy
    Etc.

    This section can include magazines, software, profanities (when I was
validation sysop on Digital Logic's Data Service I don't know how many people
used the word FUCK when asking for validation). You should have accumulated
quite a list by now.

                            Conclusion:
    This is it. I hope you have learned that nothing should be put past the
system manager. He is the only person between you and a system that could be
an excellent source of information. Enjoy!

  References
    Look at the following articles for in-depth information for specific
    operating systems:
    "Unix From the Ground Up" by The Prophet. Unbelievably helpful in learning
    Unix.
    Lex Luthor's "Hacking VAX/VMS". 2600 Magazine, February 1986.
    "A Guide to the Primos Operating System" by Carrier Culprit. LOD/H
    Technical Journal
    "Hacking IBM's VM/CMS Operating System" by Lex Luthor. 2600 Magazine,
    November and December 1987.



      ------------------------------------------------------------------


                     HOW TO USE THE DIAL TELEPHONE

        (Yet another internal phone company document!  This one we're
    reprinting in it's entirety on the next two pages, as a public service.)

    You will find the dial telephone easy to operate and the service it
provides fast and dependable. The information in the will be helpful to you in
obtaining the utmost satisfaction and convenience in the use of dial service.
   New York Telephone Company
        ***

                       Listening for Dial Tone
    On all calls, remove the receiver from the hook and listen for dial tone
before starting to dial. Dial tone is a steady humming sound in the receiver
indicating that the line is ready for you to dial.

           Calls to Central Offices Which You Should Dial Direct
(Central offices which you should dial direct from your telephone are shown on
the card furnished to you.)

    When you hear dial tone, keep the receiver off the hook and dial the first
two letters of the central office name, the office numeral, then each figure
of the line number.

 For example, if dialing WOrth 2-9970 -
    (1) Place your finger in the opening in the dial over the letter W.
    (2) Pull the dial around until you strike the finger stop.
    (3) Remove your finger from the opening, and without touching the dial
    allow it to return to its normal position.
    (4) Proceed in the same way to dial the letter 0 and the figures 2-9-9-7
    and 0. If the number called has a party line letter, dial the number in
    the same way, followed by the letter at the end of the number.

    Within a few seconds after you have completed dialing, you should hear
either the ringing signal, an intermittent burr-rr-ing sound, or the busy
signal, a rapid buzz-buzz-buzz.

    If you hear an interrupted buzzing sound, as buzz-buzz -- buzz-buzz, it
indicates that you have dialed the central office designation incorrectly.
Hang up the receiver, wait a few seconds, and make another attempt, being
careful to dial the central office designation correctly.

    If you do not hear any signal within half a minute, hang up the receiver,
wait a few seconds and make another attempt.

    When, for any reason, you do not obtain a connection (for example, the
called line is busy or does not answer), you will get quicker service if you
hang up the receiver and try the call again yourself at intervals instead of
immediately calling the operator for assistance. No charge is made unless you
obtain an answer from a subscriber's telephone.

    If you make a mistake while dialing, hang up the receiver at once, wait a
few seconds, and make another attempt.

    Before starting to dial a second call, always hang up your receiver for a
few seconds.

                  Obtaining Assistance from the Operator
    If you have trouble in dialing, or if you have occasion to report cases of
service irregularities, you can reach the operator by placing your finger in
the opening in the dial over the word "OPERATOR" and then pulling the dial
around until you strike the finger stop.

    After connection has once been established with the operator, you may
recall her by moving your receiver hook up and down slowly. This can be done
only when you are connected with the operator; on other calls, moving the
receiver hook will break the connection.

       Calls from a Party Line or from a Line with an Extension Telephone
    Always make sure that the line is not in use. If you do not hear the dial
tone, inquire if the line is being held by some other person. If no response
is received, hang up the receiver for a few seconds and make another attempt.

    Listen on the line while dialing, and if you hear another party come in on
the line or hear successive clicks in the receiver, it indicates that someone
else on your line is trying to call. Inform him that the line is in use and
request him to hang up his receiver. When he does so, hang up your own
receiver for a few seconds, and then remove it and dial the complete number
again.

    To call another party on your line, dial the operator, give her the number
you wish to call, state that it is the number of another party on your line,
and give her your number.

    To call an extension telephone on your line, dial the operator, give her
your number and ask her to ring the extension telephone.

      Calls by Number to Central Offices  Which You Can Not Dial Direct
    To place calls by number to central offices within New York City which
you can not dial direct, or to central offices at nearby points, dial the
operator and give her the number of the telephone with which you desire to be
connected, and also the number of the telephone from which you are calling.
For example --   "Bayside 9-5570 -- Walker 5-9970"

    If the central office you are calling is not at a nearby point, give the
operator the name of the city, the name of the state, if desirable, the number
of the telephone wilh which you desfie to be connected, and also the number of
the telephone from which you are calling. For example --
    "Philadelphia, Market 1234 -- Walker 5 -9970"
 or
    "Portland, Maine, Preble 1234 -- Walker 5-9970"

                  Out-of-Town Calls to Particular Persons
    To make out-of-town calls to particular persons, dial the figures 2-1-1
and give the operator who answers the name of the person with whom you wish to
speak, the name of the city, the name of the state, the number of the
telephone with which you desire to be connected, and also the number of the
telephone from which you are calling. For example --
    "Mr.  Paul  Smith  at  Boston. Massachusetts, Main 3340 -- Walker 5- 9970"

                            Information Calls
Telephone numbers of subscribers not listed in your directory, and telephone
numbers of subscribers at out-of-town points may be obtained by calling
Information.
    To call Information, dial the figures 4-1-1.

                               Telegrams
    To send a telegram, look up the telephone number of the desired telegraph
company in the directory, and dial this number as you would any other.

                      Calls to the Telephone Company
 Repair Service....Dial the figures 6-1-1
 Business Office...Dial the figures 8-1-1
 Time of Day  .......  Dial MEridian 7-1212

                           Emergency Calls
                     (Police, Fire, Ambulance)
    Dial the operator, give her your number and say --
 "I want a policeman."
 "I want to report a fire."
 "I want an ambulance."

    If compelled to leave the telephone before the desired station answers,
tell the operator where help is required.

    You may also reach the Police and the Fire Departments directly by dialing
the numbers listed in the directory.

                          Dial Coin Telephones
    The operation of dial coin telephones is quite similar to that of your own
dial telephone. The only differences are that it is necessary to deposit a
coin in order to obtain dial tone (indicating that the line is ready for you
to dial) and that telegrams are sent by dialing the operator and telling her
the telegraph company desired. If the called line is busy or does not answer,
the coin will be returned after the receiver is hung up.



      ------------------------------------------------------------------


                              Meridian Mail
    We are pleased to introduce Meridian Mail, a telephone answering system
designed to provide guests with the best possible message service.

    When you are unable to answer calls to your room, Meridian Mail answers
them for you.  Callers are informed that you are not available.  Messages
can be left for you automatically, in detail, in any language, and in
complete confidentiality.

    Your messages are stored in your personal "Voice Mailbox", to be retrieved
directly by you.  Unless you choose to delete them, messages remain in your
voice mailbox until you check out.

                       To Hear Your Messages
    From your room
        The light on your telephone will flash when you have a new message.

        To retrieve your messages:
            Lift the handset and press MESSAGE KEY.

        Reviewing the messages in your mailbox:
            To move to the previous message, press 4.
            To move to the next message, press 6.

        Listening to your messages:
            To play, press 2.
            To continue playback, press 2 again.
            To step forward, press 3.  This allows you to skip quickly
            through a long message.
            To step backward, press1.  This allows you to review a portion
            of the message.

    To get help
        If you have trouble while accessing your mailbox, Meridian Mail
        automatically prompts you with the helpful instructions.

        If you need more help:
            Press * any time while you are using Meridian Mail.

        If you would rather speak to an attendant:
            From inside the Hotel, dial 0.
            From outside the hotel, dial 484-1000.

    From outside your room
        You can retrieve messages while away from your room.
            From inside the hotel, dial 4434, from outside the hotel, dial
            646-4434 or 484-1000.
            Enter your room number and press #
            Enter your password and press #

    Using a rotary phone
        When using a rotary phone, you can only listen to your messages.  You
        need a touch-tone phone to use any special commands.
            From inside the hotel, dial 0
            From outside the hotel, dial 202-484-1000
            Give the attendant your name, room number, and password

    "Other mail"
        If you have other messages at the front desk, Meridian Mail informs
        you that you have "other mail".
        To retrieve your other mail
            Press 0.

    Your Password
        When you check in, your password is initially set to the first four
        digits of your last name.  For example:
            Last Name          Password
             Smith              Smit
             Jones              Jone

        Contact the front desk if you need more information on passwords.


(Computer hackers at the CFP conference in Washington DC this spring found it
astoundingly easy to get into guests' mailbox. All you need is a name and a room
number! We wonder how many other hotels are so trusting.)



      ------------------------------------------------------------------


                           2600 Marketplace

2600 meetings: New York City: First friday of the month at the Citicorp
Center--from 5 to 8 pm in the lobby near the payphones, 153 E 53rd St.,
between Lexington and 3rd Avenues. Come by, drop off articles, ask questions,
find the undercover agents. Call 516-751-2600 for more info. Payphone numbers:
212-223-9011, 212-223-8927, 212-308-8044, 212-308-8162.  Washington DC: In
the Pentagon City mall from 5 to 8 pm on the first Friday of the month. San
Francisco: At 4 Embarcadero Plaza (inside) from 5 to 8 pm on the first Friday
of the month. Payphone numbers: 415-398-9803,4,5,6. Los Angeles: At tbe Union
Station, corner of Macy St. and Alameda from 5 to 8 pm, first Friday of the
month. Inside main entrance by bank of phones. Payphone numbers: 213-972-
9358, 9388, 9506, 9519, 9520; 213-625-9923, 9924; 213-614-9849, 9872, 9918,
9926. Chicago: Century Mall, 2828 Clark St., 5 pm to 8 pm, first Friday of the
month, lower level, by the payphones. St. Louis: At the Galleria, Highway 40
and Brentwood, 5 pm to 8 pm, first Friday of the month, lower level, food
court area, by the theaters. Philedelphea: 6 pm at the 30th Street Amtmk
station at 30th & Market, under the "Stairwell 7" sign. Payphone numbers: 215-
222- 9880,9881,9779,9799,9632, and 387-9751. For info, call 215-552-8826.
Cambridge, MA: 6 pm at Harvard Square, outside the "Au Bon Pain" bakery store.
If it's freezing, then inside "The Garage" by the Pizza Pad on the second
floor. Call 516-751-2600 to start a meeting In your city. 

TOP QUALITY computer virus info. Little Black Book of Computer Viruses $14.95,
add $2.50 postage. Disassemblies of popular viruses, fully commented and fully
explained. Write for list. American Eagle Publications, Box 41401, Tucson, AZ
85717. 

ARRESTED  DEVELOPMENT.   H/P/A/V. +31.79.426079. Renegade 8-10 UUCP DOMAINS!
Virnet Node, PGP Areas, 386-33mhz, 300mb, USR DS 38k4.

LOOKING FOR ANYONE and everyone wanting to trade ideas, Amiga files, info
about "interesting" things. I have about 10 megs of text files, ALWAYS looking
for more! Contact Steve at 414-422-1067 or cmail rlippen@csd4.csd.uwm.edu

WE CAME, WE SAW, WE CONQUERED. 11"x 17" full color poster of pirate flag
flying in front of AT&T facility. Send $6 to P.O. Box 771071, Wichita, KS
67277-1072. 

PHONES TAPPED, office/home bugged, spouse cheating. Then this catalogue is for
you! Specialized equipment, items, and sources. It's time to get even.
Surveillance, countermeasures. espionage, personal protection. Send $5 check
or money order to B.B.I., PO Box 978, Dept. 2-6, Shoreham, NY 11786. 

TAP BACK ISSUES, complete set Vol. 1-91 of QUALITY copies from originals.
Includes schematics and indexes.  $100 postpaid.  Via UPS or 1st Class Mail.
Copy of 1971 Esquire article The Secrets of the Little Blue Box" $5 & large
SASE w/52 cents of stamps. Pete G., PO Box 463, Mr. Laurol, NJ 08054. We are
the Original!

PRINT YOUR ZIP CODE IN BARCODE. A great label program that allows you to use a
database of address to print label with barcode. You also type and print a
custom label. Send $9 no check to: H. Kindel, 5662 Calle Real Suite 171,
Goleta, CA 93117. IBM only. 

GENUINE 6.5536 MHZ CRYSTALS only $5.00 each. Orders shipped postpaid via First
Class Mail. Send payment with name and address to Electronic Design Systems,
144 West Eagle Road, Suite 108, Havenown, PA 19083. Also: information wanted
on Northeast Electronics Corp's TTS-59A portable MF sender and TTS-2762R MF
and loop signalling display. Need manuals, schematics, alignment and
calibration instructions (or photocopies). Will reward finder. 

WIRELESS MICROPHONE and wireless telephone transmitter kits. Featured in the
WINTER 1991-92 2600. Complete kit of paris with PC board. $20 CASH ONI.Y, or $
35 for both (no checks). DEMON DIALER K/T as reviewed in this issue of 2600.
Designed and developed in Holland. Produces ALL voiceband signals used in
worldwide telecommunications networks. Send $250 CASH ONLY (DM 350) to
Hack-Tic Technologies, Postbus 22953, 1100 DL Amsterdam, Netherlands (allow up
to 12 weeks for delivery). Please call +31 20 6001480 * 144,. Absolutely no
checks accepted!

FORMER U.S. ARMY ELECTRONIC WARFARE TECHNICIAN with TS clearance looking for
surveillance work which requires cunning, ingenuity, and skill. Prolocks of
Atlantic City, Box 1769, Atlantic City, NJ 08404.
TIN SHACK BBS (818) 992-3321. The BBS where hackers abound! Over a gig of
files, many on-line games! Multi-line! 2600 Magazine readers get FREE elite
access!

WOULD LIKE TO TRADE IDEAS with and befriend any fellow 2600 readers.  Call Mike
at 414-458-6561 if interested.

            *******************************************************
            *****                                             *****
            *****   Marketplace ads are FREE to subscribers   *****
            *****                                             *****
            *******************************************************



      ------------------------------------------------------------------


                             getting started
                             by Phord Prefect

    So you watched something on TV and it was about hackers... you said
"nifty"  ....  You read something on a BBS about free phone calling... you
said "cool"  ....  You started checking out books from the library about
Knight Lightning, or maybe even blue boxing (Esquire, October 1971 )... you
said "wow"  ....  You got this magazine and said, "I have to do this" but
didn't know where to start.

Well, you're not alone  ....

    Your curiosity overwhelms you, but yet you can't seem to find that little
thing to start your exploration. You could try looking around for other
hackers, but if they have a lick of sense they won't make it too obvious. Try
looking harder, they might just come to you.

    So this doesn't work... you just can't seem to find any, or they're
mostly pirates and can't help you. Well, you're just going to have to get the
balls to do something illegal in your life (but I'm not forcing you), so do
something. This magazine is full of examples. Sure there's stealing MCI
calling cards, building blue, red, or whatever boxes, but there are much
deeper things. If you defraud the phone company, you're not a hacker, you just
get free phone calls. You need a passion for the system. You need a
willingness to learn a lot about the system before you do something.

    If you're looking for free phone calls, hurry up and do that and stop
wasting your time. Like I said, you're not a hacker, you just are bothered and
need a little trick to get onto BBS's in some distant place.

    If you have a curiosity for the system, then you're in the right place.
The phone company is something so amazingly huge that one could probably spend
a lifetime exploring it.  This "exploring" is what 2600 is all about. I know
that you computer genius teenagers don't need manuals for things (like
computer programs and VCR's) and are really impatient, so you don't want the
bullshit. You want to know how to get into systems now. Well, relax. You made
a good decision buying this mag, but you have to learn first. You need  to
know this thing backwards and forwards or else you'll screw up and get caught.

    So, in response to the beginners writing in and wanting to "know how to
get free phone calls and other phone tricks", you need to get knowledge. Read
everything you can get your hands on and when you feel the time is right,
after you know exactly how, where, why, and when to do it, do it.



      ------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                     Restricted Data Transmissions

    Toll fraud is a serious problem that plagues the telecommunications
industry. Recently l have acquired a collection of trashed documents detailing
what AT&T and Bellcore are doing to stop these "thefts."l found these papers
very enlightening and occasionally humorous. A few insights into what's
bugging the telco.

    Toll Fraud Prevention Committee (TFPC): This is an industry-wide "forum"
committee set up in conjunction with Bellcore that deals with, guess what,
toll fraud. The TFPC has "super elite" meetings every once in awhile. All
participants are required to sign non-disclosure agreements.  Fortunately,
the participants frequently toss their notes in the POTC (Plain Old Trash
Can -- see. I can make stupid acronyms just like Bellcore!). As far as I'm
concerned, once it's in the POTC, it's PD (public domain)!

    The "open issues" concerning the TFPC currently are Third Number
Billing Fraud, International Incoming Collect Calls to Payphones, and Incoming
Collect Calls to Cellular. Apparently, they have noticed a marked increase in
third number billing fraud in California. To quote a memo, "The most prevalent
fraud scams include originating from coin/copt (aka COCOTs) phones as well as
business and residence service that is fraudulently established."  Third
party billing from COCOTs is an old trick. Another type of COCOT abuse
discussed 10XXX (where XXX is the code for a certain LD carrier), the caller
on the COCOT gets to choose their LD carrier. However, in some cases
the LEC (Local Exchange Carrier) strips off the 10XXX and then sends the call
to the lXC (Inter-Exchange Carrier, the guys that place the LD call) as a 1 +
directly dialed call. So, when you dial 10XXX+O11+international number, the
LEC strips the 10XXX and the IXC sees the call as directly dialed
international and assumes the call has been paid for by coin into the COCOT.
Dialing 10XXX+1+ACN also sometimes works for LD calls within the United
States. Anyway, COCOT providers are wigging out a bit because, while they must
provide 10XXX+O service, they want to block the 10XXX+1 and 10XXX+011
loopholes, but LEC's have chosen to provide COCOTs with a standard business
line which is not capable of distinguishing between these different
situations, which is why central offices have been typically programmed to
block all types of 10XXX calls from COCOTs. Thanks to the FCC, they can't do
that anymore; it's breaking the law.  So COs have been reprogrammed into
accepting these 10XXX calls from all COCOTs, and the burden of selectively
blocking the 10XXX+1 and 10XXX+011 loopholes often  falls  upon  the  COCOT
manufacturer. They gotta build lt into the COCOT hardware itself!

    Well, many early COCOTs cannot selectively unblock 10XXX+O, so their
owners face a grim choice between ignoring the unblocking law (thereby facing
legal problems), unblocking all 10XXX  calls  (thereby  opening themselves up
to massive fraud), or replacing their COCOTs with expensive, more
sophisticated models. Other LECs have begun offering call screening and other
methods to stop this type of fraud, but the whole situation is still pretty
messy.  By the way, for a comprehensive list of 10XXX carrier access codes,
see the Autumn 1989 issue of 2600, page 42 and 43. While they are constantly
changing, most of these should still be good.

    Incoming international Collect to Cellular: according to the notes when
a cellular phone is turned on, it 'checks in' with the local cellular office.
When this happens, a device that 'reads' radio waves can capture the
identification of the cellular phone. A tremendous volume of 'cloned'
fraudulent cellular calls are going to Lebanon." Same old trick, grabbing the
cell phone's ESN/MIN as it's broadcast. The only twist is that you call
someone's cellular phone collect in order to get them to pick up and broadcast
their ESN/MIN (they will probably refuse the call, but they will have
broadcast their ESN/MIN nevertheless!) But why Lebanon?

    The American Public Communications Council mentioned "a desire for the
TFPC to be involved in the resolution of clip-on fraud." Maybe you guys should
try better shielding of the phone line coming out the back of the COCOT??
Apparently, clip-on fraud has really taken off with the recent flux of new
COCOTs. COCOTs operate off a plain old customer loop, so clipping onto the
ring and tip outside the body of the COCOT works nicely. That is, assuming you
can get at the cables and get through the insulation.

    Incoming International Collect: This is a big issue. A person from overseas
calls a payphone collect in the United States. His/her buddy answers the
payphone and says, "Sure, l accept the charges." Believe it or not, this trick
works many times! Here's why. In the United  States, databases containing
all public telephone numbers provide a reasonable measure of control over
domestic collect abuse and are available to all carriers for a per-use charge.
These databases are offered and maintained by the local telephone companies
(LTC). Domestic collect-to-coin calling works well, because most operator
services systems in the United States query this database on each domestic
collect call. Most Local Exchange Carriers in the United States also offer
this database service to owners of COCOTs (for those few that accept incoming
calls).

    However, international operators across the world do not share access to
this database, just as United States international operators do not have
database access overseas! The CCITT, the international consortium of
telecommunications carriers, recognized this serious problem many years ago
with its strong recommendation to utilize a standardized coin phone
recognition tone (commonly called the cuckoo tone) on every public telephone
line number. Such a tone would be easily recognized by operators worldwide,
and is currently in use by many foreign telcos.

    The United States decided to ignore this logically sound recommendation,
having already employed a numbering strategy for public telephones which,
together with a reference document called the "Route Bulletin", alerted
foreign operators that the called number should be checked for coin with the
United States inward operator. This simple procedure greatly reduced the
number of times that the foreign operator had to check with the United States
operator, yet was effective at controlling abuse. Everyone slept soundly.

    But after the bust-up of AT&T in 1984, the local telephone companies,
operating independently and under pressure to offer new services (cellular,
pagers, etc.), abandoned the public phone fixed numbering strategy! In
addition, in June of 1984 the FCC decided to allow the birth of private
payphones (COCOTs). And, up until 1989, nothing was done to replace the fraud
prevention system. Can you say "open season"?

    In 1989, the TFPC began seeking a solution to the growing volume of
fraudulent collect calls resulting from this void in the fraud prevention
architecture. Numerous solutions were explored. A primary solution was chosen.

    Validation database! Yes, the TFPC chose to support 100 percent the LEC
database solution, with the cuckoo payphone recognition tone as one of a
number of secondary solutions. This decision caused problems, problems,
problems, since it was evaluated that a great number of foreign telcos would
be unable to implement this database-checking routine (for a variety of
technical reasons). Furthermore, because this TFPC "solution" to the United
States' problem is not in conformance with international requirements, the
foreign telcos view it with strong opposition as an unacceptable solution due
to the additional worktime that would be incurred and the blatant unwillingness
on the part of the United States to follow an effective and longstanding
international standard (shit, we balked at using metrics, why not this too?).

    To this day, the TFPC is still bouncing around ideas for this. And the
susceptibility of United States payphones to intemational incoming collect
calls remains wide open. Various phone companies are currently fighting the
cuckoo tone system, because they are cheap mothers and dont want to spend the
estimated $500-700 per payphone to install the cuckoo tone technology. If the
cuckoo tone were implemented, it would virtually eliminate the problem of
international incoming collect calls. But it hasn't been  ....

    Other brilliant "secondary" solutions recommended by the TFTP are:
    1) Eliminate the ringer on the payphone.
    2) Route all such calls thru a United States operator.
    3) Eliminate incoming service to payphones altogether.

    And so on. As you can see, this is a fascinating story, and the latest TFTP
meeting ended with the note "The issue was discussed at some length with the
end result of it becoming a new issue." Truly the work of geniuses.

    In closing, I want to share with you a quote from an article I dug out from
a pile of coffee grinds. It's from Payphone Exchange Magazine.

    The fewer the number of people aware of a primary line of defense coming
down, the better. Any qualified person reading the hacker and underground
publications knows that many of their articles are written by current LTC and
IXC employees [or people like me who go through their garbage!]. Loose lips
sink ships. Unrestricted distribution of sensitive information permits fraud.
Both cost dearly. Let's stop them both today."

 All can say is... fuck that.

According to internal phone company documents that were sent to us,
"fraudulent collect ceiling is an issue that has plagued the telephone industry
for nearly as many years as the service has been available to the public." One
of the biggest problems is, admittedly, that the United States never
implemented the CCITT recommendation to have an internationally recognizable
tone sound when a payphone picks up an incoming call. Prior to 1984, the
United States had a numbering scheme. By using something called the Route
Bulletin, operators from other countries were able to tell if they should
check with the inward operator in the United States to see if the phone was .
payphone ('checking for coin'). This simple procedure greatly reduced the
number of times that the foreign operator had to check with the US operator.
yet was effective at controlling abuse.' A major problem now exists because
after divestiture, this numbering scheme wes abandoned. Added to this was the
introduction of COCOTs (private payphones). Confusion over the true status
of these phones and the growing number of these instruments caused the local
telephone companies to select numbers for these instruments out of the
general (non-coin) number pool. After first suggesting that every country in
the world first consult a database before processing any collect calls to the
United States, the interexchange carriers had a change of heart. The rest of
the world took a rather dim view of the United States imposing its will upon
everyone else end ignoring (as usual) the international standard. As a result,
it's now been suggested by American phone companies that the coin phone
recognition tone be implemented. Apart from everybody else in the world being
opposed to it, the disadvantages of relying upon the database included:
questions about database accuracy, the fact that training would be required,
the fact that validation would require two operators, and that there are no
contractual protections for any database failures. The companies also believe
such a tone will help cut down on fraud within the United States. AT&T says.
"Public and coin phones are very often the vehicle used by defrauders. Posing
es telephone company employers, fraud perpetrators convince consumers to
accept numerous bills to third calls and to give out their billing card PIN. A
signal such as the recognition tone, when nationally recognized by all US
subscribers as signifying a coin phone, could spell an end to scammars who
conduct business from payphones and leave coin phone numbers as a call back
number to their unsuspecting prey." The new system, including a voice message,
will be tested with Pacific Bell. BellSouth, however, believes that the
database system could still be used from oversees, provided the interexchange
carriers set up separate trunks to carry 0+ traffic and do the validation
themselves.

    Among the most common forms of third number billing fraud the phone
companies cite: "billing to voice mail, scams,  cellular  (to  and from),
international, billing to unassigned numbers, recorded acceptance messages,
database failures and inaccuracies, as well as no live verification."

    AT&T also stated, "With growing frequency, defrauders are establishing
telephone service end billing large numbers of calls to that service, with no
intention of paying the bill. This is often done by providing the LEC (local
company) with fraudulent information on the service application.'

    Other issues being discussed within the telco inner circle include
providing COCOTs with their own ANI and an apparent blue box type of fraud
involving US Sprint.

it was the likeliest thing upon the cards.  So the guard of the
Dover mail thought to himself, that Friday night in November, one
thousand seven hundred and seventy-five, lumbering up Shooter's
Hill, as he stood on his own particular perch behind the mail,
beating his feet, and keeping an eye and a hand on the arm-chest
before him, where a loaded blunderbuss lay at the top of six or
eight loaded horse-pistols, deposited on a substratum of cutlass.

The Dover mail was in its usual genial position that the guard
suspected the passengers, the passengers suspected one another
and the guard, they all suspected everybody else, and the coachman 
was sure of nothing but the horses; as to which cattle he could
with a clear conscience have taken his oath on the two Testaments
that they were not fit for the journey.

"Wo-ho!" said the coachman.  "So, then!  One more pull and you're
at the top and be damned to you, for I have had trouble enough to
get you to it!--Joe!"

"Halloa!" the guard replied.

"What o'clock do you make it, Joe?"

"Ten minutes, good, past eleven."

"My blood!" ejaculated the vexed coachman, "and not atop of
Shooter's yet!  Tst!  Yah!  Get on with you! "

The emphatic horse, cut short by the whip in a most decided
negative, made a decided scramble for it, and the three other
horses followed suit.  Once more, the Dover mail struggled on,
with the jack-boots of its passengers squashing along by its
side.  They had stopped when the coach stopped, and they kept
close company with it.  If any one of the three had had the
hardihood to propose to another to walk on a little ahead into
the mist and darkness, he would have put himself in a fair way
of getting shot instantly as a highwayman.

The last burst carried the mail to the summit of the hill.  
The horses stopped to breathe again, and the guard got down to
skid the wheel for the descent, and open the coach-door to let
the passengers in.

"Tst!  Joe!" cried the coachman in a warning voice, looking down
from his box.

"What do you say, Tom?"

They both listened.

"I say a horse at a canter coming up, Joe."

"_I_ say a horse at a gallop, Tom," returned the guard, leaving
his hold of the door, and mounting nimbly to his place.
"Gentlemen!  In the kings name, all of you!"

With this hurried adjuration, he cocked his blunderbuss, and
stood on the offensive.

The passenger booked by this history, was on the coach-step,
getting in; the two other passengers were close behind him, and
about to follow.  He remained on the step, half in the coach and
half out of; they re-mained in the road below him.  They all
looked from the coachman to the guard, and from the guard to the
coachman, and listened.  The coachman looked back and the guard
looked back, and even the emphatic leader pricked up his ears and
looked back, without contradicting.

The stillness consequent on the cessation of the rumbling and and
labouring of the coach, added to the stillness of the night, made
it very quiet indeed.  The panting of the horses communicated a
tremulous motion to the coach, as if it were in a state of
agitation.  The hearts of the passengers beat loud enough perhaps
to be heard; but at any rate, the quiet pause was audibly
expressive of people out of breath, and holding the breath, and
having the pulses quickened by expectation.

The sound of a horse at a gallop came fast and furiously up the hill.

"So-ho!" the guard sang out, as loud as he could roar.  "Yo there! 
Stand!  I shall fire!"

The pace was suddenly checked, and, with much splashing and floundering, 
a man's voice called from the mist, "Is that the Dover mail?"

"Never you mind what it is!" the guard retorted.  "What are you?"

"IS that the Dover mail?"

"Why do you want to know?"

"I want a passenger, if it is."

"What passenger?"

"Mr. Jarvis Lorry."

Our booked passenger showed in a moment that it was his name.  
The guard, the coachman, and the two other passengers eyed him
distrustfully.

"Keep where you are," the guard called to the voice in the mist,
"because, if I should make a mistake, it could never be set right
in your lifetime.  Gentleman of the name of Lorry answer straight."

"What is the matter?" asked the passenger, then, with mildly
quavering speech.  "Who wants me?  Is it Jerry?"

("I don't like Jerry's voice, if it is Jerry," growled the guard
to himself.  "He's hoarser than suits me, is Jerry.")

"Yes, Mr. Lorry."

"What is the matter?"

"A despatch sent after you from over yonder.  T. and Co."

"I know this messenger, guard," said Mr. Lorry, getting down into
the road--assisted from behind more swiftly than politely by the
other two passengers, who immediately scrambled into the coach,
shut the door, and pulled up the window.  "He may come close;
there's nothing wrong."

"I hope there ain't, but I can't make so 'Nation sure of that," 
said the guard, in gruff soliloquy.  "Hallo you!"

"Well!  And hallo you!" said Jerry, more hoarsely than before.

"Come on at a footpace! d'ye mind me?  And if you've got holsters 
to that saddle o' yourn, don't let me see your hand go nigh 'em.
For I'm a devil at a quick mistake, and when I make one it takes
the form of Lead.  So now let's look at you."

The figures of a horse and rider came slowly through the eddying
mist, and came to the side of the mail, where the passenger stood.
The rider stooped, and, casting up his eyes at the guard, handed 
the passenger a small folded paper.  The rider's horse was blown,
and both horse and rider were covered with mud, from the hoofs of
the horse to the hat of the man.

"Guard!" said the passenger, in a tone of quiet business confidence.

The watchful guard, with his right hand at the stock of his raised 
blunderbuss, his left at the barrel, and his eye on the horseman,
answered curtly, "Sir."

"There is nothing to apprehend.  I belong to Tellson's Bank.  
You must know Tellson's Bank in London.  I am going to Paris
on business.  A crown to drink.  I may read this?"

"If so be as you're quick, sir."

He opened it in the light of the coach-lamp on that side, 
and read--first to himself and then aloud:  "`Wait at Dover for
Mam'selle.' It's not long, you see, guard.  Jerry, say that my
answer was, RECALLED TO LIFE."

Jerry started in his saddle.  "That's a Blazing strange answer, too," 
said he, at his hoarsest.

"Take that message back, and they will know that I received this,
as well as if I wrote.  Make the best of your way.  Good night."

With those words the passenger opened the coach-door and got in;
not at all assisted by his fellow-passengers, who had
expeditiously secreted their watches and purses in their boots,
and were now making a general pretence of being asleep.  With no
more definite purpose than to escape the hazard of originating
any other kind of action.

The coach lumbered on again, with heavier wreaths of mist closing
round it as it began the descent. The guard soon replaced his
blunderbuss in his arm-chest, and, having looked to the rest of its
contents, and having looked to the supplementary pistols that he wore
in his belt, looked to a smaller chest beneath his seat, in which
there were a few smith's tools, a couple of torches, and a tinder-box.  
For he was furnished with that completeness that if the coach-lamps
had been blown and stormed out, which did occasionally happen, he had
only to shut himself up inside, keep the flint and steel sparks well
off the straw, and get a light with tolerable safety and ease (if he
were lucky) in five minutes.

"Tom!" softly over the coach roof.

"Hallo, Joe."

"Did you hear the message?"

"I did, Joe."

"What did you make of it, Tom?"

"Nothing at all, Joe."

"That's a coincidence, too," the guard mused, "for I made the
same of it myself."

Jerry, left alone in the mist and darkness, dismounted meanwhile,
not only to ease his spent horse, but to wipe the mud from his
face, and shake the wet out of his hat-brim, which might be
capable of holding about half a gallon.  After standing with the
bridle over his heavily-splashed arm, until the wheels of the
mail were no longer within hearing and the night was quite still
again, he turned to walk down the hill.

"After that there gallop from Temple Bar, old lady, I won't trust
your fore-legs till I get you on the level," said this hoarse
messenger, glancing at his mare.  "`Recalled to life.' That's a
Blazing strange message.  Much of that wouldn't do for you, Jerry!
I say, Jerry!  You'd be in a Blazing bad way, if recalling to life was
to come into fashion, Jerry!"



III

The Night Shadows


A Wonderful fact to reflect upon, that every human creature is
constituted to be that profound secret and mystery to every other.
A solemn consideration, when I enter a great city by night, that
every one of those darkly clustered houses encloses its own secret;
that every room in every one of them encloses its own secret; that
every beating heart in the hundreds of thousands of breasts there,
is, in some of its imaginings, a secret to the heart nearest it!
Something of the awfulness, even of Death itself, is referable to
this.  No more can I turn the leaves of this dear book that I loved,
and vainly hope in time to read it all.  No more can I look into the
depths of this unfathomable water, wherein, as momentary lights
glanced into it, I have had glimpses of buried treasure and other
things submerged.  It was appointed that the book should shut with a
a spring, for ever and for ever, when I had read but a page.  It was
appointed that the water should be locked in an eternal frost, when
the light was playing on its surface, and I stood in ignorance on the
shore.  My friend is dead, my neighbour is dead, my love, the darling
of my soul, is dead; it is the inexorable consolidation and
perpetuation of the secret that was always in that individuality,
and which I shall carry in mine to my life's end.  In any of the
burial-places of this city through which I pass, is there a sleeper
more inscrutable than its busy inhabitants are, in their innermost
personality, to me, or than I am to them?

As to this, his natural and not to be alienated inheritance, 
the messenger on horseback had exactly the same possessions as
the King, the first Minister of State, or the richest merchant
in London.  So with the three passengers shut up in the narrow
compass of one lumbering old mail coach; they were mysteries to
one another, as complete as if each had been in his own coach and
six, or his own coach and sixty, with the breadth of a county
between him and the next.

The messenger rode back at an easy trot, stopping pretty often at
ale-houses by the way to drink, but evincing a tendency to keep his
own counsel, and to keep his hat cocked over his eyes.  He had eyes
that assorted very well with that decoration, being of a surface
black, with no depth in the colour or form, and much too near
together--as if they were afraid of being found out in something,
singly, if they kept too far apart.  They had a sinister expression,
under an old cocked-hat like a three-cornered spittoon, and over a
great muffler for the chin and throat, which descended nearly to the
wearer's knees.  When he stopped for drink, he moved this muffler
with his left hand, only while he poured his liquor in with his
right; as soon as that was done, he muffled again.

"No, Jerry, no!" said the messenger, harping on one theme as he rode.
"It wouldn't do for you, Jerry.  Jerry, you honest tradesman, it
wouldn't suit YOUR line of business!  Recalled--!  Bust me if I
don't think he'd been a drinking!"

His message perplexed his mind to that degree that he was fain,
several times, to take off his hat to scratch his head.  Except on
the crown, which was raggedly bald, he had stiff, black hair,
standing jaggedly all over it, and growing down hill almost to his
broad, blunt nose.  It was so like Smith's work, so much more like
the top of a strongly spiked wall than a head of hair, that the best
of players at leap-frog might have declined him, as the most
dangerous man in the world to go over.

While he trotted back with the message he was to deliver to the night
watchman in his box at the door of Tellson's Bank, by Temple Bar, who
was to deliver it to greater authorities within, the shadows of the
night took such shapes to him as arose out of the message, and took
such shapes to the mare as arose out of HER private topics of
uneasiness.  They seemed to be numerous, for she shied at every
shadow on the road.

What time, the mail-coach lumbered, jolted, rattled, and bumped upon
its tedious way, with its three fellow-inscrutables inside.  To whom,
likewise, the shadows of the night revealed themselves, in the forms
their dozing eyes and wandering thoughts suggested.

Tellson's Bank had a run upon it in the mail.  As the bank passenger--
with an arm drawn through the leathern strap, which did what lay in
it to keep him from pounding against the next passenger, and driving
him into his corner, whenever the coach got a special jolt--nodded in
his place, with half-shut eyes, the little coach-windows, and the
coach-lamp dimly gleaming through them, and the bulky bundle of
opposite passenger, became the bank, and did a great stroke of business.  
The rattle of the harness was the chink of money, and more drafts
were honoured in five minutes than even Tellson's, with all its
foreign and home connection, ever paid in thrice the time.  Then the
strong-rooms underground, at Tellson's, with such of their valuable
stores and secrets as were known to the passenger (and it was not a
little that he knew about them), opened before him, and he went in
among them with the great keys and the feebly-burning candle, and
found them safe, and strong, and sound, and still, just as he had
last seen them.

But, though the bank was almost always with him, and though the coach
(in a confused way, like the presence of pain under an opiate) was
always with him, there was another current of impression that never
ceased to run, all through the night.  He was on his way to dig some
one out of a grave.

Now, which of the multitude of faces that showed themselves before
him was the true face of the buried person, the shadows of the night
did not indicate; but they were all the faces of a man of five-and-
forty by years, and they differed principally in the passions they
expressed, and in the ghastliness of their worn and wasted state.
Pride, contempt, defiance, stubbornness, submission, lamentation,
succeeded one another; so did varieties of sunken cheek, cadaverous
colour, emaciated hands and figures.  But the face was in the main
one face, and every head was prematurely white.  A hundred times the
dozing passenger inquired of this spectre:

"Buried how long?"

The answer was always the same:  "Almost eighteen years."

"You had abandoned all hope of being dug out?"

"Long ago."

"You know that you are recalled to life?"

"They tell me so."

"I hope you care to live?"

"I can't say."

"Shall I show her to you?  Will you come and see her?"

The answers to this question were various and contradictory.
Sometimes the broken reply was, "Wait!  It would kill me if I saw 
her too soon."  Sometimes, it was given in a tender rain of tears,
and then it was, "Take me to her."  Sometimes it was staring and
bewildered, and then it was, "I don't know her.  I don't understand."

After such imaginary discourse, the passenger in his fancy would dig,
and dig, dig--now with a spade, now with a great key, now with his
hands--to dig this wretched creature out.  Got out at last, with
earth hanging about his face and hair, he would suddenly fan away to
dust.  The passenger would then start to himself, and lower the
window, to get the reality of mist and rain on his cheek.

Yet even when his eyes were opened on the mist and rain, on the
moving patch of light from the lamps, and the hedge at the roadside
retreating by jerks, the night shadows outside the coach would fall
into the train of the night shadows within.  The real Banking-house
by Temple Bar, the real business of the past day, the real strong
rooms, the real express sent after him, and the real message returned, 
would all be there.  Out of the midst of them, the ghostly face would
rise, and he would accost it again.

"Buried how long?"

"Almost eighteen years."

"I hope you care to live?"

"I can't say."

Dig--dig--dig--until an impatient movement from one of the two
passengers would admonish him to pull up the window, draw his arm
securely through the leathern strap, and speculate upon the two
slumbering forms, until his mind lost its hold of them, and they
again slid away into the bank and the grave.

"Buried how long?"

"Almost eighteen years."

"You had abandoned all hope of being dug out?"

"Long ago."

The words were still in his hearing as just spoken--distinctly in his
hearing as ever spoken words had been in his life--when the weary
passenger started to the consciousness of daylight, and found that
the shadows of the night were gone.

He lowered the window, and looked out at the rising sun.  There was a
ridge of ploughed land, with a plough upon it where it had been left
last night when the horses were unyoked; beyond, a quiet coppice-wood, 
in which many leaves of burning red and golden yellow still remained
upon the trees.  Though the earth was cold and wet, the sky was
clear, and the sun rose bright, placid, and beautiful.

"Eighteen years!" said the passenger, looking at the sun.  
"Gracious Creator of day!  To be buried alive for eighteen years!"



IV

The Preparation


When the mail got successfully to Dover, in the course of the
forenoon, the head drawer at the Royal George Hotel opened the
coach-door as his custom was.  He did it with some flourish of
ceremony, for a mail journey from London in winter was an achievement
to congratulate an adventurous traveller upon.

By that time, there was only one adventurous traveller left be
congratulated:  for the two others had been set down at their
respective roadside destinations.  The mildewy inside of the coach,
with its damp and dirty straw, its disageeable smell, and its
obscurity, was rather like a larger dog-kennel.  Mr. Lorry, the
passenger, shaking himself out of it in chains of straw, a tangle of
shaggy wrapper, flapping hat, and muddy legs, was rather like a
larger sort of dog.

"There will be a packet to Calais, tomorrow, drawer?"

"Yes, sir, if the weather holds and the wind sets tolerable fair.  
The tide will serve pretty nicely at about two in the afternoon, 
sir.  Bed, sir?"

"I shall not go to bed till night; but I want a bedroom, and a barber."

"And then breakfast, sir?  Yes, sir.  That way, sir, if you please.
Show Concord!  Gentleman's valise and hot water to Concord.  Pull off
gentleman's boots in Concord. (You will find a fine sea-coal fire,
sir.) Fetch barber to Concord.  Stir about there, now, for Concord!"

The Concord bed-chamber being always assigned to a passenger by the
mail, and passengers by the mail being always heavily wrapped up from
bead to foot, the room had the odd interest for the establishment of
the Royal George, that although but one kind of man was seen to go
into it, all kinds and varieties of men came out of it. Consequently, 
another drawer, and two porters, and several maids and the landlady,
were all loitering by accident at various points of the road between
the Concord and the coffee-room, when a gentleman of sixty, formally
dressed in a brown suit of clothes, pretty well worn, but very well
kept, with large square cuffs and large flaps to the pockets, passed
along on his way to his breakfast.

The coffee-room had no other occupant, that forenoon, than the
gentleman in brown.  His breakfast-table was drawn before the fire,
and as he sat, with its light shining on him, waiting for the meal,
he sat so still, that he might have been sitting for his portrait.

Very orderly and methodical he looked, with a hand on each knee, and
a loud watch ticking a sonorous sermon under his flapped waist-coat,
as though it pitted its gravity and longevity against the levity and
evanescence of the brisk fire.  He had a good leg, and was a little
vain of it, for his brown stockings fitted sleek and close, and were
of a fine texture; his shoes and buckles, too, though plain, were
trim.  He wore an odd little sleek crisp flaxen wig, setting very
close to his head:  which wig, it is to be presumed, was made of hair,
but which looked far more as though it were spun from filaments of
silk or glass.  His linen, though not of a fineness in accordance
with his stockings, was as white as the tops of the waves that broke
upon the neighbouring beach, or the specks of sail that glinted in
the sunlight far at sea.  A face habitually suppressed and quieted,
was still lighted up under the quaint wig by a pair of moist bright
eyes that it must have cost their owner, in years gone by, some pains
to drill to the composed and reserved expression of Tellson's Bank.
He had a healthy colour in his cheeks, and his face, though lined,
bore few traces of anxiety.  But, perhaps the confidential bachelor
clerks in Tellson's Bank were principally occupied with the cares of
other people; and perhaps second-hand cares, like second-hand
clothes, come easily off and on.

Completing his resemblance to a man who was sitting for his portrait,
Mr. Lorry dropped off to sleep.  The arrival of his breakfast roused
him, and he said to the drawer, as he moved his chair to it:

"I wish accommodation prepared for a young lady who may come here at
any time to-day.  She may ask for Mr. Jarvis Lorry, or she may only
ask for a gentleman from Tellson's Bank.  Please to let me know."

"Yes, sir.  Tellson's Bank in London, sir?"

"Yes."

"Yes, sir.  We have oftentimes the honour to entertain your gentlemen
in their travelling backwards and forwards betwixt London and Paris,
sir.  A vast deal of travelling, sir, in Tellson and Company's House."

"Yes.  We are quite a French House, as well as an English one."

"Yes, sir.  Not much in the habit of such travelling yourself, 
I think, sir?"

"Not of late years.  It is fifteen years since we--since I--
came last from France."

"Indeed, sir?  That was before my time here, sir.  Before our people's
time here, sir.  The George was in other hands at that time, sir."

"I believe so."

"But I would hold a pretty wager, sir, that a House like Tellson and
Company was flourishing, a matter of fifty, not to speak of fifteen
years ago?"

"You might treble that, and say a hundred and fifty, yet not be far
from the truth."

"Indeed, sir!"

Rounding his mouth and both his eyes, as he stepped backward from the
table, the waiter shifted his napkin from his right arm to his left,
dropped into a comfortable attitude, and stood surveying the guest
while he ate and drank, as from an observatory or watchtower.
According to the immemorial usage of waiters in all ages.

When Mr. Lorry had finished his breakfast, he went out for a stroll
on the beach.  The little narrow, crooked town of Dover hid itself
away from the beach, and ran its head into the chalk cliffs, like a
marine ostrich.  The beach was a desert of heaps of sea and stones
tumbling wildly about, and the sea did what it liked, and what it
liked was destruction.  It thundered at the town, and thundered at
the cliffs, and brought the coast down, madly.  The air among the
houses was of so strong a piscatory flavour that one might have
supposed sick fish went up to be dipped in it, as sick people went
down to be dipped in the sea.  A little fishing was done in the port,
and a quantity of strolling about by night, and looking seaward:
particularly at those times when the tide made, and was near flood.
Small tradesmen, who did no business whatever, sometimes unaccountably 
realised large fortunes, and it was remarkable that nobody in the
neighbourhood could endure a lamplighter.

As the day declined into the afternoon, and the air, which had been
at intervals clear enough to allow the French coast to be seen,
became again charged with mist and vapour, Mr. Lorry's thoughts
seemed to cloud too.  When it was dark, and he sat before the
coffee-room fire, awaiting his dinner as he had awaited his breakfast, 
his mind was busily digging, digging, digging, in the live red coals.

A bottle of good claret after dinner does a digger in the red coals
no harm, otherwise than as it has a tendency to throw him out of
work.  Mr. Lorry had been idle a long time, and had just poured out
his last glassful of wine with as complete an appearance of
satisfaction as is ever to be found in an elderly gentleman of a
fresh complexion who has got to the end of a bottle, when a rattling
of wheels came up the narrow street, and rumbled into the inn-yard.

He set down his glass untouched.  "This is Mam'selle!" said he.

In a very few minutes the waiter came in to announce that Miss
Manette had arrived from London, and would be happy to see the
gentleman from Tellson's.

"So soon?"

Miss Manette had taken some refreshment on the road, and required
none then, and was extremely anxious to see the gentleman from
Tellson's immediately, if it suited his pleasure and convenience.

The gentleman from Tellson's had nothing left for it but to empty his
glass with an air of stolid desperation, settle his odd little flaxen
wig at the ears, and follow the waiter to Miss Manette's apartment.
It was a large, dark room, furnished in a funereal manner with black
horsehair, and loaded with heavy dark tables.  These had been oiled
and oiled, until the two tall candles on the table in the middle of
the room were gloomily reflected on every leaf; as if THEY were
buried, in deep graves of black mahogany, and no light to speak of
could be expected from them until they were dug out.

The obscurity was so difficult to penetrate that Mr. Lorry,
picking his way over the well-worn Turkey carpet, supposed 

Miss Manette to be, for the moment, in some adjacent room, until,
having got past the two tall candles, he saw standing to receive him
by the table between them and the fire, a young lady of not more than
seventeen, in a riding-cloak, and still holding her straw travelling-
hat by its ribbon in her hand.  As his eyes rested on a short, slight, 
pretty figure, a quantity of golden hair, a pair of blue eyes that
met his own with an inquiring look, and a forehead with a singular
capacity (remembering how young and smooth it was), of rifting and
knitting itself into an expression that was not quite one of perplexity, 
or wonder, or alarm, or merely of a bright fixed attention, though it
included all the four expressions-as his eyes rested on these things,
a sudden vivid likeness passed before him, of a child whom he had
held in his anus on the passage across that very Channel, one cold
time, when the hail drifted heavily and the sea ran high.  The
likeness passed away, like a breath along the surface of the gaunt
pier-glass behind her, on the frame of which, a hospital procession
of negro cupids, several headless and all cripples, were offering
black baskets of Dead Sea fruit to black divinities of the feminine
gender-and he made his formal bow to Miss Manette.

"Pray take a seat, sir."  In a very clear and pleasant young voice;
a little foreign in its accent, but a very little indeed.

"I kiss your hand, miss," said Mr. Lorry, with the manners of an
earlier date, as he made his formal bow again, and took his seat.

"I received a letter from the Bank, sir, yesterday, informing me that
some intelligence--or discovery--"

"The word is not material, miss; either word will do."

"--respecting the small property of my poor father, whom I never
saw--so long dead--"

Mr. Lorry moved in his chair, and cast a troubled look towards the
hospital procession of negro cupids.  As if THEY had any help for
anybody in their absurd baskets!

"--rendered it necessary that I should go to Paris, there to
communicate with a gentleman of the Bank, so good as to be despatched
to Paris for the purpose."

"Myself."

"As I was prepared to hear, sir."

She curtseyed to him (young ladies made curtseys in those days), with
a pretty desire to convey to him that she felt how much older and
wiser he was than she.  He made her another bow.

"I replied to the Bank, sir, that as it was considered necessary, by
those who know, and who are so kind as to advise me, that I should go
to France, and that as I am an orphan and have no friend who could go
with me, I should esteem it highly if I might be permitted to place
myself, during the journey, under that worthy gentleman's protection.
The gentleman had left London, but I think a messenger was sent after
him to beg the favour of his waiting for me here."

"I was happy," said Mr. Lorry, "to be entrusted with the charge.
I shall be more happy to execute it."

"Sir, I thank you indeed.  I thank you very gratefully.  It was told
me by the Bank that the gentleman would explain to me the details of
the business, and that I must prepare myself to find them of a
surprising nature.  I have done my best to prepare myself, and I
naturally have a strong and eager interest to know what they are."

"Naturally," said Mr. Lorry.  "Yes--I--"

After a pause, he added, again settling the crisp flaxen wig at the ears,
"It is very difficult to begin."

He did not begin, but, in his indecision, met her glance.  The young
forehead lifted itself into that singular expression--but it was
pretty and characteristic, besides being singular--and she raised
her hand, as if with an involuntary action she caught at, or stayed
some passing shadow.

"Are you quite a stranger to me, sir?"

"Am I not?"  Mr. Lorry opened his hands, and extended them outwards
with an argumentative smile.

Between the eyebrows and just over the little feminine nose, the line
of which was as delicate and fine as it was possible to be, the
expression deepened itself as she took her seat thoughtfully in the
chair by which she had hitherto remained standing.  He watched her as
she mused, and the moment she raised her eyes again, went on:

"In your adopted country, I presume, I cannot do better than address
you as a young English lady, Miss Manette?"

"If you please, sir."

"Miss Manette, I am a man of business.  I have a business charge to
acquit myself of.  In your reception of it, don't heed me any more
than if I was a speaking machine-truly, I am not much else.  I will,
with your leave, relate to you, miss, the story of one of our
customers."

"Story!"

He seemed wilfully to mistake the word she had repeated, when he
added, in a hurry, "Yes, customers; in the banking business we
usually call our connection our customers.  He was a French
gentleman; a scientific gentleman; a man of great acquirements--
a Doctor."

"Not of Beauvais?"

"Why, yes, of Beauvais.  Like Monsieur Manette, your father, 
the gentleman was of Beauvais.  Like Monsieur Manette, your father,
the gentleman was of repute in Paris.  I had the honour of knowing
him there.  Our relations were business relations, but confidential.
I was at that time in our French House, and had been--oh! twenty years."

"At that time--I may ask, at what time, sir?"

"I speak, miss, of twenty years ago.  He married--an English
lady--and I was one of the trustees.  His affairs, like the affairs
of many other French gentlemen and French families, were entirely in
Tellson's hands.  In a similar way I am, or I have been, trustee of
one kind or other for scores of our customers.  These are mere business 
relations, miss; there is no friendship in them, no particular
interest, nothing like sentiment.  I have passed from one to another,
in the course of my business life, just as I pass from one of our
customers to another in the course of my business day; in short, I
have no feelings; I am a mere machine.  To go on--"

"But this is my father's story, sir; and I begin to think" 
--the curiously roughened forehead was very intent upon him--"that
when I was left an orphan through my mother's surviving my father
only two years, it was you who brought me to England.  I am almost
sure it was you."

Mr. Lorry took the hesitating little hand that confidingly advanced
to take his, and he put it with some ceremony to his lips.  He then
conducted the young lady straightway to her chair again, and, holding
the chair-back with his left hand, and using his right by turns to
rub his chin, pull his wig at the ears, or point what he said, stood
looking down into her face while she sat looking up into his.

"Miss Manette, it WAS I. And you will see how truly I spoke of
myself just now, in saying I had no feelings, and that all the
relations I hold with my fellow-creatures are mere business
relations, when you reflect that I have never seen you since.  
No; you have been the ward of Tellson's House since, and I have been
busy with the other business of Tellson's House since.  Feelings!
I have no time for them, no chance of them.  I pass my whole life,
miss, in turning an immense pecuniary Mangle."

After this odd description of his daily routine of employment, Mr.
Lorry flattened his flaxen wig upon his head with both hands (which
was most unnecessary, for nothing could be flatter than its shining
surface was before), and resumed his former attitude.

"So far, miss (as you have remarked), this is the story of your
gretted father.  Now comes the difference.  If your father had not
died when he did--Don't be frightened!  How you start!"

She did, indeed, start.  And she caught his wrist with both her hands.

"Pray," said Mr. Lorry, in a soothing tone, bringing his left hand
from the back of the chair to lay it on the supplicatory fingers that
clasped him in so violent a tremble:  "pray control your agitation--
a matter of business.  As I was saying--"

Her look so discomposed him that he stopped, wandered, and began anew:

"As I was saying; if Monsieur Manette had not died; if he had
suddenly and silently disappeared; if he had been spirited away;
if it had not been difficult to guess to what dreadful place, though
no art could trace him; if he had an enemy in some compatriot who
could exercise a privilege that I in my own time have known the boldest 
people afraid to speak of in a whisper, across the water there; for
instance, the privilege of filling up blank forms for the consignment
of any one to the oblivion of a prison for any length of time; if his
wife had implored the king, the queen, the court, the clergy, for any
tidings of him, and all quite in vain;--then the history of your father 
would have been the history of this unfortunate gentleman, the Doctor
of Beauvais."

"I entreat you to tell me more, sir."

"I will.  I am going to.  You can bear it?"

"I can bear anything but the uncertainty you leave me in at this moment."

"You speak collectedly, and you--ARE collected.  That's good!"
(Though his manner was less satisfied than his words.) "A matter of
business.  Regard it as a matter of business-business that must be
done.  Now if this doctor's wife, though a lady of great courage and
spirit, had suffered so intensely from this cause before her little
child was born--"

"The little child was a daughter, sir."

"A daughter.  A-a-matter of business--don't be distressed.  Miss,
if the poor lady had suffered so intensely before her little child
was born, that she came to the determination of sparing the poor
child the inheritance of any part of the agony she had known the
pains of, by rearing her in the belief that her father was dead--
No, don't kneel!  In Heaven's name why should you kneel to me!"

"For the truth. O dear, good, compassionate sir, for the truth!"

"A-a matter of business.  You confuse me, and how can I transact
business if I am confused?  Let us be clear-headed.  If you could
kindly mention now, for instance, what nine times ninepence are, 
or how many shillings in twenty guineas, it would be so encouraging.
I should be so much more at my ease about your state of mind."

Without directly answering to this appeal, she sat so still when
he had very gently raised her, and the hands that had not ceased
to clasp his wrists were so much more steady than they had been,
that she communicated some reassurance to Mr. Jarvis Lorry.

"That's right, that's right.  Courage!  Business!  You have business
before you; useful business.  Miss Manette, your mother took this
course with you.  And when she died--I believe broken-hearted--
having never slackened her unavailing search for your father, 
she left you, at two years old, to grow to be blooming, beautiful,
and happy, without the dark cloud upon you of living in uncertainty
whether your father soon wore his heart out in prison, or wasted
there through many lingering years."

As he said the words he looked down, with an admiring pity, on the
flowing golden hair; as if he pictured to himself that it might have
been already tinged with grey.

"You know that your parents had no great possession, and that what
they had was secured to your mother and to you.  There has been no
new discovery, of money, or of any other property; but--"

He felt his wrist held closer, and he stopped.  The expression in the
forehead, which had so particularly attracted his notice, and which
was now immovable, had deepened into one of pain and horror.

"But he has been-been found.  He is alive.  Greatly changed, it is
too probable; almost a wreck, it is possible; though we will hope the
best.  Still, alive.  Your father has been taken to the house of an
old servant in Paris, and we are going there:  I, to identify him if
I can:  you, to restore him to life, love, duty, rest, comfort."

A shiver ran through her frame, and from it through his.  She said, 
in a low, distinct, awe-stricken voice, as if she were saying it in a
dream,

"I am going to see his Ghost!  It will be his Ghost--not him!"

Mr. Lorry quietly chafed the hands that held his arm.  "There, there,
there!  See now, see now! The best and the worst are known to you, now.
You are well on your way to the poor wronged gentleman, and, with a fair
sea voyage, and a fair land journey, you will be soon at his dear side."

She repeated in the same tone, sunk to a whisper, "I have been free,
I have been happy, yet his Ghost has never haunted me!"

"Only one thing more," said Mr. Lorry, laying stress upon it as a
wholesome means of enforcing her attention:  "he has been found under
another name; his own, long forgotten or long concealed.  It would be
worse than useless now to inquire which; worse than useless to seek
to know whether he has been for years overlooked, or always designedly 
held prisoner.  It would be worse than useless now to make any inquiries, 
because it would be dangerous.  Better not to mention the subject,
anywhere or in any way, and to remove him--for a while at all events--
out of France.  Even I, safe as an Englishman, and even Tellson's,
important as they are to French credit, avoid all naming of the
matter.  I carry about me, not a scrap of writing openly referring to
it.  This is a secret service altogether.  My credentials, entries,
and memoranda, are all comprehended in the one line, `Recalled to
Life;' which may mean anything.  But what is the matter!  She doesn't
notice a word!  Miss Manette!"

Perfectly still and silent, and not even fallen back in her chair,
she sat under his hand, utterly insensible; with her eyes open and
fixed upon him, and with that last expression looking as if it were
carved or branded into her forehead.  So close was her hold upon his
arm, that he feared to detach himself lest he should hurt her;
therefore he called out loudly for assistance without moving.

A wild-looking woman, whom even in his agitation, Mr. Lorry observed
to be all of a red colour, and to have red hair, and to be dressed in
some extraordinary tight-fitting fashion, and to have on her head a
most wonderful bonnet like a Grenadier wooden measure, and good
measure too, or a great Stilton cheese, came running into the room in
advance of the inn servants, and soon settled the question of his
detachment from the poor young lady, by laying a brawny hand upon his
chest, and sending him flying back against the nearest wall.

("I really think this must be a man!" was Mr. Lorry's breathless
reflection, simultaneously with his coming against the wall.)

"Why, look at you all!" bawled this figure, addressing the inn
servants.  "Why don't you go and fetch things, instead of standing
there staring at me?  I am not so much to look at, am I?  Why don't
you go and fetch things?  I'll let you know, if you don't bring
smelling-salts, cold water, and vinegar, quick, I will."

There was an immediate dispersal for these restoratives, and she
softly laid the patient on a sofa, and tended her with great skill
and gentleness:  calling her "my precious!" and "my bird!" and spreading
her golden hair aside over her shoulders with great pride and care.

"And you in brown!" she said, indignantly turning to Mr. Lorry;
couldn't you tell her what you had to tell her, without frightening
her to death?  Look at her, with her pretty pale face and her cold
hands.  Do you call THAT being a Banker?"

Mr. Lorry was so exceedingly disconcerted by a question so hard to
answer, that he could only look on, at a distance, with much feebler
sympathy and humility, while the strong woman, having banished the
inn servants under the mysterious penalty of "letting them know"
something not mentioned if they stayed there, staring, recovered her
charge by a regular series of gradations, and coaxed her to lay her
drooping head upon her shoulder.

"I hope she will do well now," said Mr. Lorry.

"No thanks to you in brown, if she does.  My darling pretty!"

"I hope," said Mr. Lorry, after another pause of feeble sympathy and
humility, "that you accompany Miss Manette to France?"

"A likely thing, too!" replied the strong woman.  "If it was ever
intended that I should go across salt water, do you suppose
Providence would have cast my lot in an island?"

This being another question hard to answer, Mr. Jarvis Lorry withdrew
to consider it.



V

The Wine-shop


A large cask of wine had been dropped and broken, in the street.  
The accident had happened in getting it out of a cart; the cask had
tumbled out with a run, the hoops had burst, and it lay on the stones
just outside the door of the wine-shop, shattered like a
walnut-shell.

All the people within reach had suspended their business, or their
idleness, to run to the spot and drink the wine.  The rough,
irregular stones of the street, pointing every way, and designed,
one might have thought, expressly to lame all living creatures that
approached them, had dammed it into little pools; these were surrounded, 
each by its own jostling group or crowd, according to its size.  
Some men kneeled down, made scoops of their two hands joined, and
sipped, or tried to help women, who bent over their shoulders, to
sip, before the wine had all run out between their fingers.  Others,
men and women, dipped in the puddles with little mugs of mutilated
earthenware, or even with handkerchiefs from women's heads, which
were squeezed dry into infants' mouths; others made small mud-
embankments, to stem the wine as it ran; others, directed by
lookers-on up at high windows, darted here and there, to cut off
little streams of wine that started away in new directions; others
devoted themselves to the sodden and lee-dyed pieces of the cask,
licking, and even champing the moister wine-rotted fragments with
eager relish.  There was no drainage to carry off the wine, and not
only did it all get taken up, but so much mud got taken up along with
it, that there might have been a scavenger in the street, if anybody
acquainted with it could have believed in such a miraculous presence.

A shrill sound of laughter and of amused voices--voices of men,
women, and children--resounded in the street while this wine game
lasted.  There was little roughness in the sport, and much playfulness.  
There was a special companionship in it, an observable inclination on
the part of every one to join some other one, which led, especially
among the luckier or lighter-hearted, to frolicsome embraces,
drinking of healths, shaking of hands, and even joining of hands and
dancing, a dozen together.  When the wine was gone, and the places
where it had been most abundant were raked into a gridiron-pattern by
fingers, these demonstrations ceased, as suddenly as they had broken
out.  The man who had left his saw sticking in the firewood he was
cutting, set it in motion again; the women who had left on a door-step 
the little pot of hot ashes, at which she had been trying to soften
the pain in her own starved fingers and toes, or in those of her
child, returned to it; men with bare arms, matted locks, and cadaverous 
faces, who had emerged into the winter light from cellars, moved
away, to descend again; and a gloom gathered on the scene that
appeared more natural to it than sunshine.

The wine was red wine, and had stained the ground of the narrow
street in the suburb of Saint Antoine, in Paris, where it was
spilled.  It had stained many hands, too, and many faces, and many
naked feet, and many wooden shoes.  The hands of the man who sawed
the wood, left red marks on the billets; and the forehead of the
woman who nursed her baby, was stained with the stain of the old rag
she wound about her head again.  Those who had been greedy with the
staves of the cask, had acquired a tigerish smear about the mouth;
and one tall joker so besmirched, his head more out of a long squalid
bag of a nightcap than in it, scrawled upon a wall with his finger
dipped in muddy wine-lees--BLOOD.

The time was to come, when that wine too would be spilled on the
street-stones, and when the stain of it would be red upon many there.

And now that the cloud settled on Saint Antoine, which a momentary
gleam had driven from his sacred countenance, the darkness of it was
heavy-cold, dirt, sickness, ignorance, and want, were the lords in
waiting on the saintly presence-nobles of great power all of them;
but, most especially the last.  Samples of a people that had
undergone a terrible grinding and regrinding in the mill, and
certainly not in the fabulous mill which ground old people young,
shivered at every corner, passed in and out at every doorway, looked
from every window, fluttered in every vestige of a garment that the
wind shook.  The mill which had worked them down, was the mill that
grinds young people old; the children had ancient faces and grave
voices; and upon them, and upon the grown faces, and ploughed into
every furrow of age and coming up afresh, was the sigh, Hunger.  It
was prevalent everywhere.  Hunger was pushed out of the tall houses,
in the wretched clothing that hung upon poles and lines; Hunger was
patched into them with straw and rag and wood and paper; Hunger was
repeated in every fragment of the small modicum of firewood that the
man sawed off; Hunger stared down from the smokeless chimneys, and
started up from the filthy street that had no offal, among its refuse, 
of anything to eat.  Hunger was the inscription on the baker's
shelves, written in every small loaf of his scanty stock of bad
bread; at the sausage-shop, in every dead-dog preparation that was
offered for sale.  Hunger rattled its dry bones among the roasting
chestnuts in the turned cylinder; Hunger was shred into atomics in
every farthing porringer of husky chips of potato, fried with some
reluctant drops of oil.

Its abiding place was in all things fitted to it.  A narrow winding
street, full of offence and stench, with other narrow winding streets
diverging, all peopled by rags and nightcaps, and all smelling of
rags and nightcaps, and all visible things with a brooding look upon
them that looked ill.  In the hunted air of the people there was yet
some wild-beast thought of the possibility of turning at bay. Depressed 
and slinking though they were, eyes of fire were not wanting among
them; nor compressed lips, white with what they suppressed; nor
foreheads knitted into the likeness of the gallows-rope they mused
about enduring, or inflicting.  The trade signs (and they were almost
as many as the shops) were, all, grim illustrations of Want.  The
butcher and the porkman painted up, only the leanest scrags of meat;
the baker, the coarsest of meagre loaves.  The people rudely pictured
as drinking in the wine-shops, croaked over their scanty measures of
thin wine and beer, and were gloweringly confidential together.
Nothing was represented in a flourishing condition, save tools and
weapons; but, the cutler's knives and axes were sharp and bright, the
smith's hammers were heavy, and the gunmaker's stock was murderous.
The crippling stones of the pavement, with their many little
reservoirs of mud and water, had no footways, but broke off abruptly
at the doors.  The kennel, to make amends, ran down the middle of the
street--when it ran at all:  which was only after heavy rains, and
then it ran, by many eccentric fits, into the houses.  Across the
streets, at wide intervals, one clumsy lamp was slung by a rope and
pulley; at night, when the lamplighter had let these down, and lighted, 
and hoisted them again, a feeble grove of dim wicks swung in a sickly
manner overhead, as if they were at sea.  Indeed they were at sea,
and the ship and crew were in peril of tempest.

For, the time was to come, when the gaunt scarecrows of that region
should have watched the lamplighter, in their idleness and hunger,
so long, as to conceive the idea of improving on his method, and
hauling up men by those ropes and pulleys, to flare upon the
darkness of their condition.  But, the time was not come yet; and
every wind that blew over France shook the rags of the scarecrows
in vain, for the birds, fine of song and feather, took no warning.

The wine-shop was a corner shop, better than most others in its
appearance and degree, and the master of the wine-shop had stood
outside it, in a yellow waistcoat and green breeches, looking on at
the struggle for the lost wine.  "It's not my affair," said he,
with a final shrug of the shoulders.  "The people from the market
did it.  Ut them bring another."

There, his eyes happening to catch the tall joker writing up his
joke, he called to him across the way:

"Say, then, my Gaspard, what do you do there?"

The fellow pointed to his joke with immense significance, as is often 
the way with his tribe.  It missed its mark, and completely failed,
as is often the way with his tribe too.

"What now?  Are you a subject for the mad hospital?" said the
wine-shop keeper, crossing the road, and obliterating the jest with
a handful of mud, picked up for the purpose, and smeared over it.
"Why do you write in the public streets?  Is there--tell me thou--is
there no other place to write such words in?"

In his expostulation he dropped his cleaner hand (perhaps accidentally, 
perhaps not) upon the joker's heart.  The joker rapped it with his
own, took a nimble spring upward, and came down in a fantastic
dancing attitude, with one of his stained shoes jerked off his foot
into his hand, and held out.  A joker of an extremely, not to say
wolfishly practical character, he looked, under those circumstances.

"Put it on, put it on," said the other.  "Call wine, wine; and finish
there."  With that advice, he wiped his soiled hand upon the joker's
dress, such as it was--quite deliberately, as having dirtied the hand
on his account; and then recrossed the road and entered the wine-shop.

This wine-shop keeper was a bull-necked, martial-looking man of
thirty, and he should have been of a hot temperament, for, although
it was a bitter day, he wore no coat, but carried one slung over his
shoulder.  His shirt-sleeves were rolled up, too, and his brown arms
were bare to the elbows.  Neither did he wear anything more on his
head than his own crisply-curling short dark hair.  He was a dark man
altogether, with good eyes and a good bold breadth between them.
Good-humoured looking on the whole, but implacable-looking, too;
evidently a man of a strong resolution and a set purpose; a man not
desirable to be met, rushing down a narrow pass with a gulf on either
side, for nothing would turn the man.

Madame Defarge, his wife, sat in the shop behind the counter as he
came in.  Madame Defarge was a stout woman of about his own age, with
a watchful eye that seldom seemed to look at anything, a large hand
heavily ringed, a steady face, strong features, and great composure
of manner.  There was a character about Madame Defarge, from which
one might have predicated that she did not often make mistakes against 
herself in any of the reckonings over which she presided.  Madame
Defarge being sensitive to cold, was wrapped in fur, and had a
quantity of bright shawl twined about her head, though not to the
concealment of her large earrings.  Her knitting was before her, but
she had laid it down to pick her teeth with a toothpick.  Thus
engaged, with her right elbow supported by her left hand, Madame
Defarge said nothing when her lord came in, but coughed just one
grain of cough.  This, in combination with the lifting of her darkly
defined eyebrows over her toothpick by the breadth of a line, suggested 
to her husband that he would do well to look round the shop among the
customers, for any new customer who had dropped in while he stepped
over the way.

The wine-shop keeper accordingly rolled his eyes about, until they
rested upon an elderly gentleman and a young lady, who were seated in
a corner.  Other company were there:  two playing cards, two playing
dominoes, three standing by the counter lengthening out a short
supply of wine.  As he passed behind the counter, he took notice that
the elderly gentleman said in a look to the young lady, "This is our
man."

"What the devil do YOU do in that galley there?" said Monsieur
Defarge to himself; "I don't know you."

But, he feigned not to notice the two strangers, and fell into
discourse with the triumvirate of customers who were drinking at the
counter.

"How goes it, Jacques?" said one of these three to Monsieur Defarge.
"Is all the spilt wine swallowed?"

"Every drop, Jacques," answered Monsieur Defarge.

When this interchange of Christian name was effected, Madame Defarge,
picking her teeth with her toothpick, coughed another grain of cough,
and raised her eyebrows by the breadth of another line.

"It is not often," said the second of the three, addressing Monsieur
Defarge, "that many of these miserable beasts know the taste of wine,
or of anything but black bread and death.  Is it not so, Jacques?"

"It is so, Jacques," Monsieur Defarge returned.

At this second interchange of the Christian name, Madame Defarge,
still using her toothpick with profound composure, coughed another
grain of cough, and raised her eyebrows by the breadth of another line.

The last of the three now said his say, as he put down his empty
drinking vessel and smacked his lips.

"Ah!  So much the worse!  A bitter taste it is that such poor cattle
always have in their mouths, and hard lives they live, Jacques.
Am I right, Jacques?"

"You are right, Jacques," was the response of Monsieur Defarge.

This third interchange of the Christian name was completed at the
moment when Madame Defarge put her toothpick by, kept her eyebrows
up, and slightly rustled in her seat.

"Hold then!  True!" muttered her husband.  "Gentlemen--my wife!"

The three customers pulled off their hats to Madame Defarge, with
three flourishes.  She acknowledged their homage by bending her head,
and giving them a quick look.  Then she glanced in a casual manner
round the wine-shop, took up her knitting with great apparent
calmness and repose of spirit, and became absorbed in it.

"Gentlemen," said her husband, who had kept his bright eye
observantly upon her, "good day.  The chamber, furnished bachelor-
fashion, that you wished to see, and were inquiring for when I
stepped out, is on the fifth floor.  The doorway of the staircase
gives on the little courtyard close to the left here," pointing with
his hand, "near to the window of my establishment.  But, now that I
remember, one of you has already been there, and can show the way.
Gentlemen, adieu!"

They paid for their wine, and left the place.  The eyes of Monsieur
Defarge were studying his wife at her knitting when the elderly
gentleman advanced from his corner, and begged the favour of a word.

"Willingly, sir," said Monsieur Defarge, and quietly stepped with him
to the door.

Their conference was very short, but very decided.  Almost at the
first word, Monsieur Defarge started and became deeply attentive. 
It had not lasted a minute, when he nodded and went out.  The
gentleman then beckoned to the young lady, and they, too, went out.
Madame Defarge knitted with nimble fingers and steady eyebrows, and
saw nothing.

Mr. Jarvis Lorry and Miss Manette, emerging from the wine-shop thus,
joined Monsieur Defarge in the doorway to which he had directed his
own company just before.  It opened from a stinking little black
courtyard, and was the general public entrance to a great pile of
houses, inhabited by a great number of people.  In the gloomy tile-
paved entry to the gloomy tile-paved staircase, Monsieur Defarge bent
down on one knee to the child of his old master, and put her hand to
his lips.  It was a gentle action, but not at all gently done; a very
remarkable transformation had come over him in a few seconds.  He had
no good-humour in his face, nor any openness of aspect left, but had
become a secret, angry, dangerous man.

"It is very high; it is a little difficult.  Better to begin slowly."
Thus, Monsieur Defarge, in a stem voice, to Mr. Lorry, as they began
ascending the stairs.

"Is he alone?" the latter whispered.

"Alone!  God help him, who should be with him!" said the other, in the
same low voice.

"Is he always alone, then?"

"Yes."

"Of his own desire?"

"Of his own necessity.  As he was, when I first saw him after they
found me and demanded to know if I would take him, and, at my peril
be discreet--as he was then, so he is now."

"He is greatly changed?"

"Changed!"

The keeper of the wine-shop stopped to strike the wall with his hand,
and mutter a tremendous curse.  No direct answer could have been half
so forcible.  Mr. Lorry's spirits grew heavier and heavier, as he and
his two companions ascended higher and higher.

Such a staircase, with its accessories, in the older and more crowded
parts of Paris, would be bad enough now; but, at that time, it was
vile indeed to unaccustomed and unhardened senses.  Every little
habitation within the great foul nest of one high building--that is
to say, the room or rooms within every door that opened on the
general staircase--left its own heap of refuse on its own landing,
besides flinging other refuse from its own windows.  The uncontrollable
and hopeless mass of decomposition so engendered, would have polluted
the air, even if poverty and deprivation had not loaded it with their
intangible impurities; the two bad sources combined made it almost
insupportable.  Through such an atmosphere, by a steep dark shaft of
dirt and poison, the way lay.  Yielding to his own disturbance of
mind, and to his young companion's agitation, which became greater
every instant, Mr. Jarvis Lorry twice stopped to rest.  Each of these
stoppages was made at a doleful grating, by which any languishing
good airs that were left uncorrupted, seemed to escape, and all
spoilt and sickly vapours seemed to crawl in.  Through the rusted
bars, tastes, rather than glimpses, were caught of the jumbled
neighbourhood; and nothing within range, nearer or lower than the
summits of the two great towers of Notre-Dame, had any promise on it
of healthy life or wholesome aspirations.

At last, the top of the staircase was gained, and they stopped for
the third time.  There was yet an upper staircase, of a steeper
inclination and of contracted dimensions, to be ascended, before the
garret story was reached.  The keeper of the wine-shop, always going
a little in advance, and always going on the side which Mr. Lorry
took, as though he dreaded to be asked any question by the young
lady, turned himself about here, and, carefully feeling in the
pockets of the coat he carried over his shoulder, took out a key.

"The door is locked then, my friend?" said Mr. Lorry, surprised.

"Ay.  Yes," was the grim reply of Monsieur Defarge.

"You think it necessary to keep the unfortunate gentleman so retired?"

"I think it necessary to turn the key."  Monsieur Defarge whispered it
closer in his ear, and frowned heavily.

"Why?"

"Why!  Because he has lived so long, locked up, that he would be
frightened-rave-tear himself to pieces-die-come to I know not what
harm--if his door was left open."

"Is it possible!" exclaimed Mr. Lorry.

"Is it possible!" repeated Defarge, bitterly.  "Yes.  And a beautiful
world we live in, when it IS possible, and when many other such
things are possible, and not only possible, but done--done, see
you!--under that sky there, every day.  Long live the Devil.  Let us
go on."

This dialogue had been held in so very low a whisper, that not a word
of it had reached the young lady's ears.  But, by this time she
trembled under such strong emotion, and her face expressed such deep
anxiety, and, above all, such dread and terror, that Mr. Lorry felt
it incumbent on him to speak a word or two of reassurance.

"Courage, dear miss!  Courage!  Business!  The worst will be over
in a moment; it is but passing the room-door, and the worst is over.
Then, all the good you bring to him, all the relief, all the
happiness you bring to him, begin.  Let our good friend here,
assist you on that side.  That's well, friend Defarge.  Come, now.
Business, business!"

They went up slowly and softly.  The staircase was short, and they
were soon at the top.  There, as it had an abrupt turn in it, they
came all at once in sight of three men, whose heads were bent down
close together at the side of a door, and who were intently looking
into the room to which the door belonged, through some chinks or
holes in the wall.  On hearing footsteps close at hand, these three
turned, and rose, and showed themselves to be the three of one name
who had been drinking in the wine-shop.

"I forgot them in the surprise of your visit," explained Monsieur
Defarge.  "Leave us, good boys; we have business here."

The three glided by, and went silently down.

There appearing to be no other door on that floor, and the keeper of
the wine-shop going straight to this one when they were left alone,
Mr. Lorry asked him in a whisper, with a little anger:

"Do you make a show of Monsieur Manette?"

"I show him, in the way you have seen, to a chosen few."

"Is that well?"

"_I_ think it is well."

"Who are the few?  How do you choose them?"

"I choose them as real men, of my name--Jacques is my name--to whom
the sight is likely to do good.  Enough; you are English; that is
another thing.  Stay there, if you please, a little moment."

With an admonitory gesture to keep them back, he stooped, and looked
in through the crevice in the wall.  Soon raising his head again, he
struck twice or thrice upon the door--evidently with no other object
than to make a noise there.  With the same intention, he drew the key
across it, three or four times, before he put it clumsily into the
lock, and turned it as heavily as he could.

The door slowly opened inward under his hand, and he looked into the
room and said something.  A faint voice answered something.  Little
more than a single syllable could have been spoken on either side.

He looked back over his shoulder, and beckoned them to enter.
Mr. Lorry got his arm securely round the daughter's waist, and held
her; for he felt that she was sinking.

"A-a-a-business, business!" he urged, with a moisture that was not of
business shining on his cheek.  "Come in, come in!"

"I am afraid of it," she answered, shuddering.

"Of it?  What?"

"I mean of him.  Of my father."

Rendered in a manner desperate, by her state and by the beckoning of
their conductor, he drew over his neck the arm that shook upon his
shoulder, lifted her a little, and hurried her into the room.  He sat
her down just within the door, and held her, clinging to him.

Defarge drew out the key, closed the door, locked it on the inside,
took out the key again, and held it in his hand.  All this he did,
methodically, and with as loud and harsh an accompaniment of noise as
he could make.  Finally, he walked across the room with a measured
tread to where the window was.  He stopped there, and faced round.

The garret, built to be a depository for firewood and the like, was
dim and dark:  for, the window of dormer shape, was in truth a door in
the roof, with a little crane over it for the hoisting up of stores
from the street:  unglazed, and closing up the middle in two pieces,
like any other door of French construction.  To exclude the cold, one
half of this door was fast closed, and the other was opened but a
very little way.  Such a scanty portion of light was admitted through
these means, that it was difficult, on first coming in, to see
anything; and long habit alone could have slowly formed in any one,
the ability to do any work requiring nicety in such obscurity.  Yet,
work of that kind was being done in the garret; for, with his back
towards the door, and his face towards the window where the keeper of
the wine-shop stood looking at him, a white-haired man sat on a low
bench, stooping forward and very busy, making shoes.



VI

The Shoemaker


"Good day!" said Monsieur Defarge, looking down at the white head
that bent low over the shoemaking.

It was raised for a moment, and a very faint voice responded to the
salutation, as if it were at a distance:

"Good day!"

"You are still hard at work, I see?"

After a long silence, the head was lifted for another moment, and the
voice replied, "Yes--I am working."  This time, a pair of haggard eyes
had looked at the questioner, before the face had dropped again.

The faintness of the voice was pitiable and dreadful.  It was not the
faintness of physical weakness, though confinement and hard fare no
doubt had their part in it.  Its deplorable peculiarity was, that it
was the faintness of solitude and disuse.  It was like the last
feeble echo of a sound made long and long ago.  So entirely had it
lost the life and resonance of the human voice, that it affected the
senses like a once beautiful colour faded away into a poor weak
stain.  So sunken and suppressed it was, that it was like a voice
underground.  So expressive it was, of a hopeless and lost creature,
that a famished traveller, wearied out by lonely wandering in a
wilderness, would have remembered home and friends in such a tone
before lying down to die.

Some minutes of silent work had passed:  and the haggard eyes had
looked up again:  not with any interest or curiosity, but with a dull
mechanical perception, beforehand, that the spot where the only
visitor they were aware of had stood, was not yet empty.

"I want," said Defarge, who had not removed his gaze from the
shoemaker, "to let in a little more light here.  You can bear a
little more?"

The shoemaker stopped his work; looked with a vacant air of listening,
at the floor on one side of him; then similarly, at the floor on the
other side of him; then, upward at the speaker.

"What did you say?"

"You can bear a little more light?"

"I must bear it, if you let it in."  (Laying the palest shadow of a
stress upon the second word.)

The opened half-door was opened a little further, and secured at that
angle for the time.  A broad ray of light fell into the garret, and
showed the workman with an unfinished shoe upon his lap, pausing in
his labour.  His few common tools and various scraps of leather were
at his feet and on his bench.  He had a white beard, raggedly cut,
but not very long, a hollow face, and exceedingly bright eyes.  The
hollowness and thinness of his face would have caused them to look
large, under his yet dark eyebrows and his confused white hair,
though they had been really otherwise; but, they were naturally
large, and looked unnaturally so.  His yellow rags of shirt lay open
at the throat, and showed his body to be withered and worn.  He, and
his old canvas frock, and his loose stockings, and all his poor
tatters of clothes, had, in a long seclusion from direct light and
air, faded down to such a dull uniformity of parchment-yellow, that
it would have been hard to say which was which.

He had put up a hand between his eyes and the light, and the very
bones of it seemed transparent.  So he sat, with a steadfastly vacant
gaze, pausing in his work.  He never looked at the figure before him,
without first looking down on this side of himself, then on that, as
if he had lost the habit of associating place with sound; he never
spoke, without first wandering in this manner, and forgetting to speak.

"Are you going to finish that pair of shoes to-day?" asked Defarge,
motioning to Mr. Lorry to come forward.

"What did you say?"

"Do you mean to finish that pair of shoes to-day?"

"I can't say that I mean to.  I suppose so.  I don't know."

But, the question reminded him of his work, and he bent over it again.

Mr. Lorry came silently forward, leaving the daughter by the door.
When he had stood, for a minute or two, by the side of Defarge, the
shoemaker looked up.  He showed no surprise at seeing another figure,
but the unsteady fingers of one of his hands strayed to his lips as
he looked at it (his lips and his nails were of the same pale lead-
colour), and then the hand dropped to his work, and he once more bent
over the shoe.  The look and the action had occupied but an instant.

"You have a visitor, you see," said Monsieur Defarge.

"What did you say?"

"Here is a visitor."

The shoemaker looked up as before, but without removing a hand from his work.

"Come!" said Defarge.  "Here is monsieur, who knows a well-made shoe
when he sees one.  Show him that shoe you are working at.  Take it, monsieur."

Mr. Lorry took it in his hand.

"Tell monsieur what kind of shoe it is, and the maker's name."

There was a longer pause than usual, before the shoemaker replied:

"I forget what it was you asked me.  What did you say?"

"I said, couldn't you describe the kind of shoe, for monsieur's information?"

"It is a lady's shoe.  It is a young lady's walking-shoe.  It is in the
present mode.  I never saw the mode.  I have had a pattern in my hand."
He glanced at the shoe with some little passing touch of pride.

"And the maker's name?" said Defarge.

Now that he had no work to hold, he laid the knuckles of the right hand
in the hollow of the left, and then the knuckles of the left hand in the
hollow of the right, and then passed a hand across his bearded chin,
and so on in regular changes, without a moment's intermission.
The task of recalling him from the vagrancy into which he always
sank when he had spoken, was like recalling some very weak person
from a swoon, or endeavouring, in the hope of some disclosure,
to stay the spirit of a fast-dying man.

"Did you ask me for my name?"

"Assuredly I did."

"One Hundred and Five, North Tower."

"Is that all?"

"One Hundred and Five, North Tower."

With a weary sound that was not a sigh, nor a groan, he bent to work
again, until the silence was again broken.

"You are not a shoemaker by trade?" said Mr. Lorry, looking steadfastly
at him.

His haggard eyes turned to Defarge as if he would have transferred
the question to him:  but as no help came from that quarter, they
turned back on the questioner when they had sought the ground.

"I am not a shoemaker by trade?  No, I was not a shoemaker by trade.
I-I learnt it here.  I taught myself.  I asked leave to--"

He lapsed away, even for minutes, ringing those measured changes on
his hands the whole time.  His eyes came slowly back, at last, to the
face from which they had wandered; when they rested on it, he started,
and resumed, in the manner of a sleeper that moment awake,
reverting to a subject of last night.

"I asked leave to teach myself, and I got it with much difficulty
after a long while, and I have made shoes ever since."

As he held out his hand for the shoe that had been taken from him,
Mr. Lorry said, still looking steadfastly in his face:

"Monsieur Manette, do you remember nothing of me?"

The shoe dropped to the ground, and he sat looking fixedly at the
questioner.

"Monsieur Manette"; Mr. Lorry laid his hand upon Defarge's arm;
"do you remember nothing of this man?  Look at him.  Look at me. 
Is there no old banker, no old business, no old servant, no old time,
rising in your mind, Monsieur Manette?"

As the captive of many years sat looking fixedly, by turns, at
Mr. Lorry and at Defarge, some long obliterated marks of an actively
intent intelligence in the middle of the forehead, gradually forced
themselves through the black mist that had fallen on him.  They were
overclouded again, they were fainter, they were gone; but they had
been there.  And so exactly was the expression repeated on the fair
young face of her who had crept along the wall to a point where she
could see him, and where she now stood looking at him, with hands
which at first had been only raised in frightened compassion, if not
even to keep him off and shut out the sight of him, but which were
now extending towards him, trembling with eagerness to lay the
spectral face upon her warm young breast, and love it back to life
and hope--so exactly was the expression repeated (though in stronger
characters) on her fair young face, that it looked as though it had
passed like a moving light, from him to her.

Darkness had fatten on him in its place.  He looked at the two, less
and less attentively, and his eyes in gloomy abstraction sought the
ground and looked about him in the old way.  Finally, with a deep
long sigh, he took the shoe up, and resumed his work.

"Have you recognised him, monsieur?" asked Defarge in a whisper.

"Yes; for a moment.  At first I thought it quite hopeless, but I have
unquestionably seen, for a single moment, the face that I once knew
so well.  Hush!  Let us draw further back.  Hush!"

She had moved from the wall of the garret, very near to the bench on
which he sat.  There was something awful in his unconsciousness of
the figure that could have put out its hand and touched him as he
stooped over his labour.

Not a word was spoken, not a sound was made.  She stood, like a
spirit, beside him, and he bent over his work.

It happened, at length, that he had occasion to change the instrument
in his hand, for his shoemaker's knife.  It lay on that side of him
which was not the side on which she stood.  He had taken it up, and
was stooping to work again, when his eyes caught the skirt of her
dress.  He raised them, and saw her face.  The two spectators started
forward, but she stayed them with a motion of her hand.  She had no
fear of his striking at her with the knife, though they had.

He stared at her with a fearful look, and after a while his lips
began to form some words, though no sound proceeded from them.  By
degrees, in the pauses of his quick and laboured breathing, he was
heard to say:

"What is this?"

With the tears streaming down her face, she put her two hands to her
lips, and kissed them to him; then clasped them on her breast, as if
she laid his ruined head there.

"You are not the gaoler's daughter?"

She sighed "No."

"Who are you?"

Not yet trusting the tones of her voice, she sat down on the bench
beside him.  He recoiled, but she laid her hand upon his arm.  A
strange thrill struck him when she did so, and visibly passed over
his frame; he laid the knife down' softly, as he sat staring at her.

Her golden hair, which she wore in long curls, had been hurriedly
pushed aside, and fell down over her neck.  Advancing his hand by
little and little, he took it up and looked at it.  In the midst of
the action he went astray, and, with another deep sigh, fell to work
at his shoemaking.

But not for long.  Releasing his arm, she laid her hand upon his
shoulder.  After looking doubtfully at it, two or three times, as if
to be sure that it was really there, he laid down his work, put his
hand to his neck, and took off a blackened string with a scrap of
folded rag attached to it.  He opened this, carefully, on his knee,
and it contained a very little quantity of hair:  not more than one or
two long golden hairs, which he had, in some old day, wound off upon
his finger.

He took her hair into his hand again, and looked closely at it.  "It
is the same.  How can it be!  When was it!  How was it!"

As the concentrated expression returned to his forehead, he seemed to
become conscious that it was in hers too.  He turned her full to the
light, and looked at her.

"She had laid her head upon my shoulder, that night when I was
summoned out--she had a fear of my going, though I had none--and when
I was brought to the North Tower they found these upon my sleeve.
'You will leave me them?  They can never help me to escape in the
body, though they may in the spirit.' Those were the words I said.
I remember them very well."

He formed this speech with his lips many times before he could utter
it. But when he did find spoken words for it, they came to him
coherently, though slowly.

"How was this?--WAS IT YOU?"

Once more, the two spectators started, as he turned upon her with a
frightful suddenness.  But she sat perfectly still in his grasp, and
only said, in a low voice, "I entreat you, good gentlemen, do not
come near us, do not speak, do not move!"

"Hark!" he exclaimed.  "Whose voice was that?"

His hands released her as he uttered this cry, and went up to his
white hair, which they tore in a frenzy.  It died out, as everything
but his shoemaking did die out of him, and he refolded his little
packet and tried to secure it in his breast; but he still looked at
her, and gloomily shook his head.

"No, no, no; you are too young, too blooming.  It can't be.  See what
the prisoner is.  These are not the hands she knew, this is not the
face she knew, this is not a voice she ever heard.  No, no.  She
was--and He was--before the slow years of the North Tower--ages ago.
What is your name, my gentle angel?"

Hailing his softened tone and manner, his daughter fell upon her
knees before him, with her appealing hands upon his breast.

"O, sir, at another time you shall know my name, and who my mother
was, and who my father, and how I never knew their hard, hard
history.  But I cannot tell you at this time, and I cannot tell you
here.  All that I may tell you, here and now, is, that I pray to you
to touch me and to bless me. Kiss me, kiss me!  O my dear, my dear!"

His cold white head mingled with her radiant hair, which warmed and
lighted it as though it were the light of Freedom shining on him.

"If you hear in my voice--I don't know that it is so, but I hope it
is--if you hear in my voice any resemblance to a voice that once was
sweet music in your ears, weep for it, weep for it!  If you touch,
in touching my hair, anything that recalls a beloved head that lay on
your breast when you were young and free, weep for it, weep for it!
If, when I hint to you of a Home that is before us, where I will be
true to you with all my duty and with all my faithful service, I
bring back the remembrance of a Home long desolate, while your poor
heart pined away, weep for it, weep for it!"

She held him closer round the neck, and rocked him on her breast
like a child.

"If, when I tell you, dearest dear, that your agony is over, and that
I have come here to take you from it, and that we go to England to be
at peace and at rest, I cause you to think of your useful life laid
waste, and of our native France so wicked to you, weep for it, weep
for it!  And if, when I shall tell you of my name, and of my father
who is living, and of my mother who is dead, you learn that I have to
kneel to my honoured father, and implore his pardon for having never
for his sake striven all day and lain awake and wept all night,
because the love of my poor mother hid his torture from me, weep for
it, weep for it!  Weep for her, then, and for me!  Good gentlemen,
thank God!  I feel his sacred tears upon my face, and his sobs strike
against my heart. O, see!  Thank God for us, thank God!"

He had sunk in her arms, and his face dropped on her breast:  a sight
so touching, yet so terrible in the tremendous wrong and suffering
which had gone before it, that the two beholders covered their faces.

When the quiet of the garret had been long undisturbed, and his
heaving breast and shaken form had long yielded to the calm that must
follow all storms--emblem to humanity, of the rest and silence into
which the storm called Life must hush at last--they came forward to
raise the father and daughter from the ground.  He had gradually
dropped to the floor, and lay there in a lethargy, worn out.  She had
nestled down with him, that his head might lie upon her arm; and her
hair drooping over him curtained him from the light.

"If, without disturbing him," she said, raising her hand to Mr. Lorry
as he stooped over them, after repeated blowings of his nose, "all
could be arranged for our leaving Paris at once, so that, from the,
very door, he could be taken away--"

"But, consider.  Is he fit for the journey?" asked Mr. Lorry.

"More fit for that, I think, than to remain in this city, so dreadful to him."

"It is true," said Defarge, who was kneeling to look on and hear.
"More than that; Monsieur Manette is, for all reasons, best out of
France.  Say, shall I hire a carriage and post-horses?"

"That's business," said Mr. Lorry, resuming on the shortest notice
his methodical manners; "and if business is to be done, I had better do it."

"Then be so kind," urged Miss Manette, "as to leave us here.  You see
how composed he has become, and you cannot be afraid to leave him
with me now.  Why should you be?  If you will lock the door to secure
us from interruption, I do not doubt that you will find him, when you
come back, as quiet as you leave him.  In any case, I will take care
of him until you return, and then we will remove him straight."

Both Mr. Lorry and Defarge were rather disinclined to this course,
and in favour of one of them remaining.  But, as there were not only
carriage and horses to be seen to, but travelling papers; and as time
pressed, for the day was drawing to an end, it came at last to their
hastily dividing the business that was necessary to be done, and
hurrying away to do it.

Then, as the darkness closed in, the daughter laid her head down on
the hard ground close at the father's side, and watched him.  The
darkness deepened and deepened, and they both lay quiet, until a
light gleamed through the chinks in the wall.

Mr. Lorry and Monsieur Defarge had made all ready for the journey,
and had brought with them, besides travelling cloaks and wrappers,
bread and meat, wine, and hot coffee.  Monsieur Defarge put this
provender, and the lamp he carried, on the shoemaker's bench (there
was nothing else in the garret but a pallet bed), and he and
Mr. Lorry roused the captive, and assisted him to his feet.

No human intelligence could have read the mysteries of his mind, in
the scared blank wonder of his face.  Whether he knew what had
happened, whether he recollected what they had said to him, whether
he knew that he was free, were questions which no sagacity could have
solved.  They tried speaking to him; but, he was so confused, and so
very slow to answer, that they took fright at his bewilderment, and
agreed for the time to tamper with him no more.  He had a wild, lost
manner of occasionally clasping his head in his hands, that had not
been seen in him before; yet, he had some pleasure in the mere sound
of his daughter's voice, and invariably turned to it when she spoke.

In the submissive way of one long accustomed to obey under coercion,
he ate and drank what they gave him to eat and drink, and put on the
cloak and other wrappings, that they gave him to wear.  He readily
responded to his daughter's drawing her arm through his, and
took--and kept--her hand in both his own.

They began to descend; Monsieur Defarge going first with the lamp,
Mr. Lorry closing the little procession.  They had not traversed many
steps of the long main staircase when he stopped, and stared at the
roof and round at the wails.

"You remember the place, my father?  You remember coming up here?"

"What did you say?"

But, before she could repeat the question, he murmured an answer as
if she had repeated it.

"Remember?  No, I don't remember.  It was so very long ago."

That he had no recollection whatever of his having been brought from
his prison to that house, was apparent to them.  They heard him mutter,
"One Hundred and Five, North Tower;" and when he looked about him, it
evidently was for the strong fortress-walls which had long encompassed him.
On their reaching the courtyard he instinctively altered his tread,
as being in expectation of a drawbridge; and when there was no
drawbridge, and he saw the carriage waiting in the open street, he
dropped his daughter's hand and clasped his head again.

No crowd was about the door; no people were discernible at any of the
many windows; not even a chance passerby was in the street.  An unnatural
silence and desertion reigned there.  Only one soul was to be seen,
and that was Madame Defarge--who leaned against the door-post,
knitting, and saw nothing.

The prisoner had got into a coach, and his daughter had followed him,
when Mr. Lorry's feet were arrested on the step by his asking,
miserably, for his shoemaking tools and the unfinished shoes.  Madame
Defarge immediately called to her husband that she would get them,
and went, knitting, out of the lamplight, through the courtyard.  She
quickly brought them down and handed them in;--and immediately
afterwards leaned against the door-post, knitting, and saw nothing.

Defarge got upon the box, and gave the word "To the Barrier!"
The postilion cracked his whip, and they clattered away under
the feeble over-swinging lamps.

Under the over-swinging lamps--swinging ever brighter in the better
streets, and ever dimmer in the worse--and by lighted shops, gay
crowds, illuminated coffee-houses, and theatre-doors, to one of the
city gates.  Soldiers with lanterns, at the guard-house there. 
"Your papers, travellers!"  "See here then, Monsieur the Officer,"
said Defarge, getting down, and taking him gravely apart, "these are
the papers of monsieur inside, with the white head.  They were
consigned to me, with him, at the--" He dropped his voice, there was
a flutter among the military lanterns, and one of them being handed
into the coach by an arm in uniform, the eyes connected with the arm
looked, not an every day or an every night look, at monsieur with the
white head.  "It is well.  Forward!" from the uniform.  "Adieu!" from
Defarge.  And so, under a short grove of feebler and feebler
over-swinging lamps, out under the great grove of stars.

Beneath that arch of unmoved and eternal lights; some, so remote from
this little earth that the learned tell us it is doubtful whether
their rays have even yet discovered it, as a point in space where
anything is suffered or done:  the shadows of the night were broad and
black.  All through the cold and restless interval, until dawn, they
once more whispered in the ears of Mr. Jarvis Lorry--sitting opposite
the buried man who had been dug out, and wondering what subtle powers
were for ever lost to him, and what were capable of restoration--the
old inquiry:

"I hope you care to be recalled to life?"

And the old answer:

"I can't say."



The end of the first book.





Book the Second-the Golden Thread




I

Five Years Later


Tellson's Bank by Temple Bar was an old-fashioned place, even in the
year one thousand seven hundred and eighty.  It was very small, very
dark, very ugly, very incommodious.  It was an old-fashioned place,
moreover, in the moral attribute that the partners in the House were
proud of its smallness, proud of its darkness, proud of its ugliness,
proud of its incommodiousness.  They were even boastful of its
eminence in those particulars, and were fired by an express conviction
that, if it were less objectionable, it would be less respectable.
This was no passive belief, but an active weapon which they flashed
at more convenient places of business.  Tellson's (they said) wanted
no elbow-room, Tellson's wanted no light, Tellson's wanted no
embellishment.  Noakes and Co.'s might, or Snooks Brothers' might;
but Tellson's, thank Heaven!--

Any one of these partners would have disinherited his son on the
question of rebuilding Tellson's.  In this respect the House was much
on a par with the Country; which did very often disinherit its sons
for suggesting improvements in laws and customs that had long been
highly objectionable, but were only the more respectable.

Thus it had come to pass, that Tellson's was the triumphant
perfection of inconvenience.  After bursting open a door of idiotic
obstinacy with a weak rattle in its throat, you fell into Tellson's
down two steps, and came to your senses in a miserable little shop,
with two little counters, where the oldest of men made your cheque
shake as if the wind rustled it, while they examined the signature by
the dingiest of windows, which were always under a shower-bath of mud
from Fleet-street, and which were made the dingier by their own iron
bars proper, and the heavy shadow of Temple Bar.  If your business
necessitated your seeing "the House," you were put into a species of
Condemned Hold at the back, where you meditated on a misspent life,
until the House came with its bands in its pockets, and you could
hardly blink at it in the dismal twilight.  Your money came out of,
or went into, wormy old wooden drawers, particles of which flew up
your nose and down your throat when they were opened and shut.  Your
bank-notes had a musty odour, as if they were fast decomposing into
rags again.  Your plate was stowed away among the neighbouring
cesspools, and evil communications corrupted its good polish in a day
or two.  Your deeds got into extemporised strong-rooms made of
kitchens and sculleries, and fretted all the fat out of their
parchments into the banking-house air.  Your lighter boxes of family
papers went up-stairs into a Barmecide room, that always had a great
dining-table in it and never had a dinner, and where, even in the
year one thousand seven hundred and eighty, the first letters written
to you by your old love, or by your little children, were but newly
released from the horror of being ogled through the windows, by the
heads exposed on Temple Bar with an insensate brutality and ferocity
worthy of Abyssinia or Ashantee.

But indeed, at that time, putting to death was a recipe much in vogue
with all trades and professions, and not least of all with Tellson's.
Death is Nature's remedy for all things, and why not Legislation's?
Accordingly, the forger was put to Death; the utterer of a bad note
was put to Death; the unlawful opener of a letter was put to Death;
the purloiner of forty shillings and sixpence was put to Death; the
holder of a horse at Tellson's door, who made off with it, was put to
Death; the coiner of a bad shilling was put to Death; the sounders of
three-fourths of the notes in the whole gamut of Crime, were put to
Death.  Not that it did the least good in the way of prevention--it
might almost have been worth remarking that the fact was exactly the
reverse--but, it cleared off (as to this world) the trouble of each
particular case, and left nothing else connected with it to be looked
after.  Thus, Tellson's, in its day, like greater places of business,
its contemporaries, had taken so many lives, that, if the heads laid
low before it had been ranged on Temple Bar instead of being
privately disposed of, they would probably have excluded what little
light the ground floor bad, in a rather significant manner.

Cramped in all kinds of dun cupboards and hutches at Tellson's, the
oldest of men carried on the business gravely.  When they took a
young man into Tellson's London house, they hid him somewhere till he
was old.  They kept him in a dark place, like a cheese, until he had
the full Tellson flavour and blue-mould upon him.  Then only was he
permitted to be seen, spectacularly poring over large books, and
casting his breeches and gaiters into the general weight of the
establishment.

Outside Tellson's--never by any means in it, unless called in--was an
odd-job-man, an occasional porter and messenger, who served as the
live sign of the house.  He was never absent during business hours,
unless upon an errand, and then he was represented by his son:  a
grisly urchin of twelve, who was his express image.  People
understood that Tellson's, in a stately way, tolerated the
odd-job-man.  The house had always tolerated some person in that
capacity, and time and tide had drifted this person to the post.  His
surname was Cruncher, and on the youthful occasion of his renouncing
by proxy the works of darkness, in the easterly parish church of
Hounsditch, he had received the added appellation of Jerry.

The scene was Mr. Cruncher's private lodging in Hanging-sword-alley,
Whitefriars:  the time, half-past seven of the clock on a windy March
morning, Anno Domini seventeen hundred and eighty. (Mr. Cruncher
himself always spoke of the year of our Lord as Anna Dominoes:
apparently under the impression that the Christian era dated from the
invention of a popular game, by a lady who had bestowed her name upon it.)

Mr. Cruncher's apartments were not in a savoury neighbourhood, and
were but two in number, even if a closet with a single pane of glass
in it might be counted as one.  But they were very decently kept.
Early as it was, on the windy March morning, the room in which he lay
abed was already scrubbed throughout; and between the cups and
saucers arranged for breakfast, and the lumbering deal table, a very
clean white cloth was spread.

Mr. Cruncher reposed under a patchwork counterpane, like a Harlequin
at home.  At fast, he slept heavily, but, by degrees, began to roll
and surge in bed, until he rose above the surface, with his spiky
hair looking as if it must tear the sheets to ribbons.  At which
juncture, he exclaimed, in a voice of dire exasperation:

"Bust me, if she ain't at it agin!"

A woman of orderly and industrious appearance rose from her knees in
a corner, with sufficient haste and trepidation to show that she was
the person referred to.

"What!" said Mr. Cruncher, looking out of bed for a boot.  "You're at
it agin, are you?"

After hailing the mom with this second salutation, he threw a boot at
the woman as a third.  It was a very muddy boot, and may introduce
the odd circumstance connected with Mr. Cruncher's domestic economy,
that, whereas he often came home after banking hours with clean
boots, he often got up next morning to find the same boots
covered with clay.

"What," said Mr. Cruncher, varying his apostrophe after missing
his mark--"what are you up to, Aggerawayter?"

"I was only saying my prayers."

"Saying your prayers!  You're a nice woman!  What do you mean by
flopping yourself down and praying agin me?"

"I was not praying against you; I was praying for you."

"You weren't.  And if you were, I won't be took the liberty with.
Here! your mother's a nice woman, young Jerry, going a praying agin
your father's prosperity.  You've got a dutiful mother, you have, my
son.  You've got a religious mother, you have, my boy:  going and
flopping herself down, and praying that the bread-and-butter may be
snatched out of the mouth of her only child."

Master Cruncher (who was in his shirt) took this very ill, and,
turning to his mother, strongly deprecated any praying away of his
personal board.

"And what do you suppose, you conceited female," said Mr. Cruncher,
with unconscious inconsistency, "that the worth of YOUR prayers may be?
Name the price that you put YOUR prayers at!"

"They only come from the heart, Jerry.  They are worth no more than that."

"Worth no more than that," repeated Mr. Cruncher.
"They ain't worth much, then.  Whether or no,
I won't be prayed agin, I tell you.  I can't afford it.
I'm not a going to be made unlucky by YOUR sneaking.
If you must go flopping yourself down, flop in favour
of your husband and child, and not in opposition to 'em. If I
had had any but a unnat'ral wife, and this poor boy had had any but
a unnat'ral mother, I might have made some money last week instead
of being counter-prayed and countermined and religiously circumwented
into the worst of luck.  B-u-u-ust me!" said Mr. Cruncher, who all
this time had been putting on his clothes, "if I ain't, what with
piety and one blowed thing and another, been choused this last week
into as bad luck as ever a poor devil of a honest tradesman met with!
Young Jerry, dress yourself, my boy, and while I clean my boots keep
a eye upon your mother now and then, and if you see any signs of more
flopping, give me a call.  For, I tell you," here he addressed his
wife once more, "I won't be gone agin, in this manner.  I am as
rickety as a hackney-coach, I'm as sleepy as laudanum, my lines is
strained to that degree that I shouldn't know, if it wasn't for the
pain in 'em, which was me and which somebody else, yet I'm none the
better for it in pocket; and it's my suspicion that you've been at it
from morning to night to prevent me from being the better for it in pocket,
and I won't put up with it, Aggerawayter, and what do you say now!"

Growling, in addition, such phrases as "Ah! yes!  You're religious, too.
You wouldn't put yourself in opposition to the interests of your husband
and child, would you?  Not you!" and throwing off other sarcastic sparks
from the whirling grindstone of his indignation, Mr. Cruncher betook
himself to his boot-cleaning and his general preparation for business.
In the meantime, his son, whose head was garnished with tenderer spikes,
and whose young eyes stood close by one another, as his father's did,
kept the required watch upon his mother.  He greatly disturbed that
poor woman at intervals, by darting out of his sleeping closet,
where he made his toilet, with a suppressed cry of "You are going to flop,
mother.  --Halloa, father!" and, after raising this fictitious alarm,
darting in again with an undutiful grin.

Mr. Cruncher's temper was not at all improved when he came to his
breakfast.  He resented Mrs. Cruncher's saying grace with particular
animosity.

"Now, Aggerawayter!  What are you up to?  At it again?"

His wife explained that she had merely "asked a blessing."

"Don't do it!" said Mr. Crunches looking about, as if he rather
expected to see the loaf disappear under the efficacy of his wife's
petitions.  "I ain't a going to be blest out of house and home.
I won't have my wittles blest off my table.  Keep still!"

Exceedingly red-eyed and grim, as if he had been up all night at a
party which had taken anything but a convivial turn, Jerry Cruncher
worried his breakfast rather than ate it, growling over it like any
four-footed inmate of a menagerie.  Towards nine o'clock he smoothed
his ruffled aspect, and, presenting as respectable and business-like
an exterior as he could overlay his natural self with, issued forth
to the occupation of the day.

It could scarcely be called a trade, in spite of his favourite
description of himself as "a honest tradesman."  His stock consisted
of a wooden stool, made out of a broken-backed chair cut down, which
stool, young Jerry, walking at his father's side, carried every
morning to beneath the banking-house window that was nearest Temple
Bar:  where, with the addition of the first handful of straw that
could be gleaned from any passing vehicle to keep the cold and wet
from the odd-job-man's feet, it formed the encampment for the day.
On this post of his, Mr. Cruncher was as well known to Fleet-street
and the Temple, as the Bar itself,--and was almost as in-looking.

Encamped at a quarter before nine, in good time to touch his three-
cornered hat to the oldest of men as they passed in to Tellson's,
Jerry took up his station on this windy March morning, with young
Jerry standing by him, when not engaged in making forays through the
Bar, to inflict bodily and mental injuries of an acute description on
passing boys who were small enough for his amiable purpose.  Father
and son, extremely like each other, looking silently on at the
morning traffic in Fleet-street, with their two heads as near to one
another as the two eyes of each were, bore a considerable resemblance
to a pair of monkeys.  The resemblance was not lessened by the
accidental circumstance, that the mature Jerry bit and spat out
straw, while the twinkling eyes of the youthful Jerry were as
restlessly watchful of him as of everything else in Fleet-street.

The head of one of the regular indoor messengers attached to
Tellson's establishment was put through the door, and the word was
given:

"Porter wanted!"

"Hooray, father!  Here's an early job to begin with!"

Having thus given his parent God speed, young Jerry seated himself on
the stool, entered on his reversionary interest in the straw his
father had been chewing, and cogitated.

"Al-ways rusty!  His fingers is al-ways rusty!" muttered young Jerry.
"Where does my father get all that iron rust from?  He don't get no
iron rust here!"



II

A Sight


"You know the Old Bailey, well, no doubt?" said one of the oldest of
clerks to Jerry the messenger.

"Ye-es, sir," returned Jerry, in something of a dogged manner.  "I
DO know the Bailey."

"Just so.  And you know Mr. Lorry."

"I know Mr. Lorry, sir, much better than I know the Bailey.  Much
better," said Jerry, not unlike a reluctant witness at the
establishment in question, "than I, as a honest tradesman, wish to
know the Bailey."

"Very well.  Find the door where the witnesses go in, and show the
door-keeper this note for Mr. Lorry.  He will then let you in."

"Into the court, sir?"

"Into the court."

Mr. Cruncher's eyes seemed to get a little closer to one another, and
to interchange the inquiry, "What do you think of this?"

"Am I to wait in the court, sir?" he asked, as the result of that
conference.

"I am going to tell you.  The door-keeper will pass the note to Mr.
Lorry, and do you make any gesture that will attract Mr. Lorry's
attention, and show him where you stand.  Then what you have to do,
is, to remain there until he wants you."

"Is that all, sir?"

"That's all.  He wishes to have a messenger at hand.  This is to tell
him you are there."

As the ancient clerk deliberately folded and superscribed the note,
Mr. Cruncher, after surveying him in silence until he came to the
blotting-paper stage, remarked:

"I suppose they'll be trying Forgeries this morning?"

"Treason!"

"That's quartering," said Jerry.  "Barbarous!"

"It is the law," remarked the ancient clerk, turning his surprised
spectacles upon him.  "It is the law."

"It's hard in the law to spile a man, I think.  Ifs hard enough to
kill him, but it's wery hard to spile him, sir."

"Not at all," retained the ancient clerk.  "Speak well of the law.
Take care of your chest and voice, my good friend, and leave the law
to take care of itself.  I give you that advice."

"It's the damp, sir, what settles on my chest and voice," said Jerry.
"I leave you to judge what a damp way of earning a living mine is."

"WeB, well," said the old clerk; "we aa have our various ways of
gaining a livelihood.  Some of us have damp ways, and some of us have
dry ways.  Here is the letter.  Go along."

Jerry took the letter, and, remarking to himself with less internal
deference than he made an outward show of, "You are a lean old one,
too," made his bow, informed his son, in passing, of his destination,
and went his way.

They hanged at Tyburn, in those days, so the street outside Newgate
had not obtained one infamous notoriety that has since attached to
it.  But, the gaol was a vile place, in which most kinds of
debauchery and villainy were practised, and where dire diseases were
bred, that came into court with the prisoners, and sometimes rushed
straight from the dock at my Lord Chief Justice himself, and pulled
him off the bench.  It had more than once happened, that the Judge in
the black cap pronounced his own doom as certainly as the prisoner's,
and even died before him.  For the rest, the Old Bailey was famous as
a kind of deadly inn-yard, from which pale travellers set out
continually, in carts and coaches, on a violent passage into the
other world:  traversing some two miles and a half of public street
and road, and shaming few good citizens, if any.  So powerful is use,
and so desirable to be good use in the beginning.  It was famous,
too, for the pillory, a wise old institution, that inflicted a
punishment of which no one could foresee the extent; also, for the
whipping-post, another dear old institution, very humanising and
softening to behold in action; also, for extensive transactions in
blood-money, another fragment of ancestral wisdom, systematically
leading to the most frightful mercenary crimes that could be
committed under Heaven.  Altogether, the Old Bailey, at that date,
was a choice illustration of the precept, that "Whatever is is right;"
an aphorism that would be as final as it is lazy, did it not include
the troublesome consequence, that nothing that ever was, was wrong.

Making his way through the tainted crowd, dispersed up and down this
hideous scene of action, with the skill of a man accustomed to make
his way quietly, the messenger found out the door he sought, and
handed in his letter through a trap in it.  For, people then paid to
see the play at the Old Bailey, just as they paid to see the play in
Bedlam--only the former entertainment was much the dearer. Therefore,
all the Old Bailey doors were well guarded--except, indeed, the
social doors by which the criminals got there, and those were always
left wide open.

After some delay and demur, the door grudgingly turned on its hinges
a very little way, and allowed Mr. Jerry Cruncher to squeeze himself
into court.

"What's on?" he asked, in a whisper, of the man he found himself next to.

"Nothing yet."

"What's coming on?"

"The Treason case."

"The quartering one, eh?"

"Ah!" returned the man, with a relish; "he'll be drawn on a hurdle
to be half hanged, and then he'll be taken down and sliced before
his own face, and then his inside will be taken out and burnt while
he looks on, and then his head will be chopped off, and he'll be
cut into quarters.  That's the sentence."

"If he's found Guilty, you mean to say?" Jerry added, by way of proviso.

"Oh! they'll find him guilty," said the other.  "Don't you be afraid of that."

Mr. Cruncher's attention was here diverted to the door-keeper, whom
he saw making his way to Mr. Lorry, with the note in his hand.  Mr.
Lorry sat at a table, among the gentlemen in wigs:  not far from a
wigged gentleman, the prisoner's counsel, who had a great bundle of
papers before him:  and nearly opposite another wigged gentleman with
his hands in his pockets, whose whole attention, when Mr. Cruncher
looked at him then or afterwards, seemed to be concentrated on the
ceiling of the court.  After some gruff coughing and rubbing of his
chin and signing with his hand, Jerry attracted the notice of
Mr. Lorry, who had stood up to look for him, and who quietly nodded
and sat down again.

"What's HE got to do with the case?" asked the man he had spoken with.

"Blest if I know," said Jerry.

"What have YOU got to do with it, then, if a person may inquire?"

"Blest if I know that either," said Jerry.

The entrance of the Judge, and a consequent great stir and settling
down in the court, stopped the dialogue.  Presently, the dock became
the central point of interest.  Two gaolers, who had been standing
there, wont out, and the prisoner was brought in, and put to the bar.

Everybody present, except the one wigged gentleman who looked at the
ceiling, stared at him.  All the human breath in the place, rolled at
him, like a sea, or a wind, or a fire.  Eager faces strained round
pillars and corners, to get a sight of him; spectators in back rows
stood up, not to miss a hair of him; people on the floor of the
court, laid their hands on the shoulders of the people before them,
to help themselves, at anybody's cost, to a view of him--stood
a-tiptoe, got upon ledges, stood upon next to nothing, to see every
inch of him.  Conspicuous among these latter, like an animated bit of
the spiked wall of Newgate, Jerry stood:  aiming at the prisoner the
beery breath of a whet he had taken as he came along, and discharging
it to mingle with the waves of other beer, and gin, and tea, and
coffee, and what not, that flowed at him, and already broke upon the
great windows behind him in an impure mist and rain.

The object of all this staring and blaring, was a young man of about
five-and-twenty, well-grown and well-looking, with a sunburnt cheek
and a dark eye.  His condition was that of a young gentleman.  He was
plainly dressed in black, or very dark grey, and his hair, which was
long and dark, was gathered in a ribbon at the back of his neck; more
to be out of his way than for ornament.  As an emotion of the mind
will express itself through any covering of the body, so the paleness
which his situation engendered came through the brown upon his cheek,
showing the soul to be stronger than the sun.  He was otherwise quite
self-possessed, bowed to the Judge, and stood quiet.

The sort of interest with which this man was stared and breathed at,
was not a sort that elevated humanity.  Had he stood in peril of a
less horrible sentence--had there been a chance of any one of its
savage details being spared--by just so much would he have lost in
his fascination.  The form that was to be doomed to be so shamefully
mangled, was the sight; the immortal creature that was to be so
butchered and torn asunder, yielded the sensation.  Whatever gloss
the various spectators put upon the interest, according to their
several arts and powers of self-deceit, the interest was, at the
root of it, Ogreish.

Silence in the court!  Charles Darnay had yesterday pleaded Not Guilty
to an indictment denouncing him (with infinite jingle and jangle) for
that he was a false traitor to our serene, illustrious, excellent,
and so forth, prince, our Lord the King, by reason of his having, on
divers occasions, and by divers means and ways, assisted Lewis, the
French King, in his wars against our said serene, illustrious,
excellent, and so forth; that was to say, by coming and going,
between the dominions of our said serene, illustrious, excellent, and
so forth, and those of the said French Lewis, and wickedly, falsely,
traitorously, and otherwise evil-adverbiously, revealing to the said
French Lewis what forces our said serene, illustrious, excellent, and
so forth, had in preparation to send to Canada and North America.
This much, Jerry, with his head becoming more and more spiky as the
law terms bristled it, made out with huge satisfaction, and so
arrived circuitously at the understanding that the aforesaid, and
over and over again aforesaid, Charles Darnay, stood there before him
upon his trial; that the jury were swearing in; and that
Mr. Attorney-General was making ready to speak.

The accused, who was (and who knew he was) being mentally hanged,
beheaded, and quartered, by everybody there, neither flinched from
the situation, nor assumed any theatrical air in it.  He was quiet
and attentive; watched the opening proceedings with a grave interest;
and stood with his hands resting on the slab of wood before him, so
composedly, that they had not displaced a leaf of the herbs with
which it was strewn.  The court was all bestrewn with herbs and
sprinkled with vinegar, as a precaution against gaol air and gaol
fever.

Over the prisoner's head there was a mirror, to throw the light down
upon him.  Crowds of the wicked and the wretched had been reflected
in it, and had passed from its surface and this earth's together.
Haunted in a most ghastly manner that abominable place would have
been, if the glass could ever have rendered back its reflections, as
the ocean is one day to give up its dead.  Some passing thought of
the infamy and disgrace for which it had been reserved, may have
struck the prisoner's mind.  Be that as it may, a change in his
position making him conscious of a bar of light across his face, he
looked up; and when he saw the glass his face flushed, and his right
hand pushed the herbs away.

It happened, that the action turned his face to that side of the
court which was on his left.  About on a level with his eyes, there
sat, in that corner of the Judge's bench, two persons upon whom his look
immediately rested; so immediately, and so much to the changing of his aspect,
that all the eyes that were tamed upon him, turned to them.

The spectators saw in the two figures, a young lady of little more
than twenty, and a gentleman who was evidently her father; a man of
a very remarkable appearance in respect of the absolute whiteness
of his hair, and a certain indescribable intensity of face:  not of
an active kind, but pondering and self-communing.  When this expression
was upon him, he looked as if he were old; but when it was stirred
and broken up--as it was now, in a moment, on his speaking to his
daughter--he became a handsome man, not past the prime of life.

His daughter had one of her hands drawn through his arm, as she sat
by him, and the other pressed upon it.  She had drawn close to him,
in her dread of the scene, and in her pity for the prisoner.  Her
forehead had been strikingly expressive of an engrossing terror and
compassion that saw nothing but the peril of the accused.  This had
been so very noticeable, so very powerfully and naturally shown, that
starers who had had no pity for him were touched by her; and the
whisper went about, "Who are they?"

Jerry, the messenger, who had made his own observations, in his own
manner, and who had been sucking the rust off his fingers in his
absorption, stretched his neck to hear who they were.  The crowd
about him had pressed and passed the inquiry on to the nearest
attendant, and from him it had been more slowly pressed and passed
back; at last it got to Jerry:

"Witnesses."

"For which side?"

"Against."

"Against what side?"

"The prisoner's."

The Judge, whose eyes had gone in the general direction, recalled
them, leaned back in his seat, and looked steadily at the man whose
life was in his hand, as Mr. Attorney-General rose to spin the rope,
grind the axe, and hammer the nails into the scaffold.



III

A Disappointment


Mr. Attorney-General had to inform the jury, that the prisoner before
them, though young in years, was old in the treasonable practices
which claimed the forfeit of his life.  That this correspondence with
the public enemy was not a correspondence of to-day, or of yesterday,
or even of last year, or of the year before.  That, it was certain
the prisoner had, for longer than that, been in the habit of passing
and repassing between France and England, on secret business of which
he could give no honest account.  That, if it were in the nature of
traitorous ways to thrive (which happily it never was), the real
wickedness and guilt of his business might have remained undiscovered.
That Providence, however, had put it into the heart of a person who
was beyond fear and beyond reproach, to ferret out the nature of the
prisoner's schemes, and, struck with horror, to disclose them to his
Majesty's Chief Secretary of State and most honourable Privy Council.
That, this patriot would be produced before them.  That, his position
and attitude were, on the whole, sublime.  That, he had been the
prisoner's friend, but, at once in an auspicious and an evil hour
detecting his infamy, had resolved to immolate the traitor he could
no longer cherish in his bosom, on the sacred altar of his country.
That, if statues were decreed in Britain, as in ancient Greece and
Rome, to public benefactors, this shining citizen would assuredly
have had one.  That, as they were not so decreed, he probably would
not have one.  That, Virtue, as had been observed by the poets (in
many passages which he well knew the jury would have, word for word,
at the tips of their tongues; whereat the jury's countenances
displayed a guilty consciousness that they knew nothing about the
passages), was in a manner contagious; more especially the bright
virtue known as patriotism, or love of country.  That, the lofty
example of this immaculate and unimpeachable witness for the Crown,
to refer to whom however unworthily was an honour, had communicated
itself to the prisoner's servant, and had engendered in him a holy
determination to examine his master's table-drawers and pockets, and
secrete his papers.  That, he (Mr. Attorney-General) was prepared to
hear some disparagement attempted of this admirable servant; but that,
in a general way, he preferred him to his (Mr. Attorney-General's)
brothers and sisters, and honoured him more than his
(Mr. Attorney-General's) father and mother.  That, he called with
confidence on the jury to come and do likewise.  That, the evidence
of these two witnesses, coupled with the documents of their
discovering that would be produced, would show the prisoner to have
been furnished with lists of his Majesty's forces, and of their
disposition and preparation, both by sea and land, and would leave no
doubt that he had habitually conveyed such information to a hostile
power.  That, these lists could not be proved to be in the prisoner's
handwriting; but that it was all the same; that, indeed, it was
rather the better for the prosecution, as showing the prisoner to be
artful in his precautions.  That, the proof would go back five years,
and would show the prisoner already engaged in these pernicious
missions, within a few weeks before the date of the very first action
fought between the British troops and the Americans.  That, for these
reasons, the jury, being a loyal jury (as he knew they were), and
being a responsible jury (as THEY knew they were), must positively
find the prisoner Guilty, and make an end of him, whether they liked
it or not.  That, they never could lay their heads upon their pillows;
that, they never could tolerate the idea of their wives laying their
heads upon their pillows; that, they never could endure the notion of
their children laying their heads upon their pillows; in short, that
there never more could be, for them or theirs, any laying of heads
upon pillows at all, unless the prisoner's head was taken off.  That
head Mr. Attorney-General concluded by demanding of them, in the name
of everything he could think of with a round turn in it, and on the
faith of his solemn asseveration that he already considered the
prisoner as good as dead and gone.

When the Attorney-General ceased, a buzz arose in the court as if
a cloud of great blue-flies were swarming about the prisoner, in
anticipation of what he was soon to become.  When toned down again,
the unimpeachable patriot appeared in the witness-box.

Mr. Solicitor-General then, following his leader's lead, examined
the patriot:  John Barsad, gentleman, by name.  The story of his pure
soul was exactly what Mr. Attorney-General had described it to be--
perhaps, if it had a fault, a little too exactly.  Having released
his noble bosom of its burden, he would have modestly withdrawn
himself, but that the wigged gentleman with the papers before him,
sitting not far from Mr. Lorry, begged to ask him a few questions.
The wigged gentleman sitting opposite, still looking at the ceiling
of the court.

Had he ever been a spy himself?  No, he scorned the base insinuation.
What did he live upon?  His property.  Where was his property?
He didn't precisely remember where it was.  What was it?  No business
of anybody's.  Had he inherited it?  Yes, he had.  From whom?  Distant
relation.  Very distant?  Rather.  Ever been in prison?  Certainly not.
Never in a debtors' prison?  Didn't see what that had to do with it.
Never in a debtors' prison?--Come, once again.  Never?  Yes.  How many
times?  Two or three times.  Not five or six?  Perhaps.  Of what profession?
Gentleman.  Ever been kicked?  Might have been. Frequently?  No.
Ever kicked downstairs?  Decidedly not; once received a kick on the
top of a staircase, and fell downstairs of his own accord.  Kicked on
that occasion for cheating at dice?  Something to that effect was said
by the intoxicated liar who committed the assault, but it was not
true.  Swear it was not true?  Positively. Ever live by cheating at
play?  Never.  Ever live by play?  Not more than other gentlemen do.
Ever borrow money of the prisoner?  Yes.  Ever pay him?  No. Was not
this intimacy with the prisoner, in reality a very slight one, forced
upon the prisoner in coaches, inns, and packets?  No.  Sure he saw
the prisoner with these lists?  Certain.  Knew no more about the
lists?  No. Had not procured them himself, for instance?  No. Expect
to get anything by this evidence?  No. Not in regular government pay
and employment, to lay traps?  Oh dear no.  Or to do anything?  Oh dear no.
Swear that?  Over and over again.  No motives but motives of sheer patriotism?
None whatever.

The virtuous servant, Roger Cly, swore his way through the case at a
great rate.  He had taken service with the prisoner, in good faith
and simplicity, four years ago.  He had asked the prisoner, aboard
the Calais packet, if he wanted a handy fellow, and the prisoner had
engaged him.  He had not asked the prisoner to take the handy fellow
as an act of charity--never thought of such a thing.  He began to
have suspicions of the prisoner, and to keep an eye upon him, soon
afterwards.  In arranging his clothes, while travelling, he had seen
similar lists to these in the prisoner's pockets, over and over again.
He had taken these lists from the drawer of the prisoner's desk.
He had not put them there first.  He had seen the prisoner show these
identical lists to French gentlemen at Calais, and similar lists to
French gentlemen, both at Calais and Boulogne.  He loved his country,
and couldn't bear it, and had given information.  He had never been
suspected of stealing a silver tea-pot; he had been maligned respecting
a mustard-pot, but it turned out to be only a plated one.  He had
known the last witness seven or eight years; that was merely a
coincidence.  He didn't call it a particularly curious coincidence;
most coincidences were curious.  Neither did he call it a curious
coincidence that true patriotism was HIS only motive too.  He was a
true Briton, and hoped there were many like him.

The blue-flies buzzed again, and Mr. Attorney-General called Mr. Jarvis Lorry.

"Mr. Jarvis Lorry, are you a clerk in Tellson's bank?"

"I am."

"On a certain Friday night in November one thousand seven hundred and
seventy-five, did business occasion you to travel between London and
Dover by the mail?"

"It did."

"Were there any other passengers in the mail?"

"Two."

"Did they alight on the road in the course of the night?"

"They did."

"Mr. Lorry, look upon the prisoner.  Was he one of those two passengers?"

"I cannot undertake to say that he was."

"Does he resemble either of these two passengers?"

"Both were so wrapped up, and the night was so dark, and we were all
so reserved, that I cannot undertake to say even that."

"Mr. Lorry, look again upon the prisoner.  Supposing him wrapped up
as those two passengers were, is there anything in his bulk and
stature to render it unlikely that he was one of them?"

"No."

"You will not swear, Mr. Lorry, that he was not one of them?"

"No."

"So at least you say he may have been one of them?"

"Yes.  Except that I remember them both to have been--like myself--
timorous of highwaymen, and the prisoner has not a timorous air."

"Did you ever see a counterfeit of timidity, Mr. Lorry?"

"I certainly have seen that."

"Mr. Lorry, look once more upon the prisoner.  Have you seen him,
to your certain knowledge, before?"

"I have."

"When?"

"I was returning from France a few days afterwards, and, at Calais,
the prisoner came on board the packet-ship in which I returned, and
made the voyage with me."

"At what hour did he come on board?"

"At a little after midnight."

"In the dead of the night.  Was he the only passenger who came on
board at that untimely hour?"

"He happened to be the only one."

"Never mind about `happening,' Mr. Lorry.  He was the only passenger
who came on board in the dead of the night?"

"He was."

"Were you travelling alone, Mr. Lorry, or with any companion?"

"With two companions.  A gentleman and lady.  They are here."

"They are here.  Had you any conversation with the prisoner?"

"Hardly any.  The weather was stormy, and the passage long and rough,
and I lay on a sofa, almost from shore to shore."

"Miss Manette!"

The young lady, to whom all eyes had been turned before, and were now
turned again, stood up where she had sat.  Her father rose with her,
and kept her hand drawn through his arm.

"Miss Manette, look upon the prisoner."

To be confronted with such pity, and such earnest youth and beauty,
was far more trying to the accused than to be confronted with all the
crowd.  Standing, as it were, apart with her on the edge of his grave,
not all the staring curiosity that looked on, could, for the moment,
nerve him to remain quite still.  His hurried right hand parcelled
out the herbs before him into imaginary beds of flowers in a garden;
and his efforts to control and steady his breathing shook the lips
from which the colour rushed to his heart.  The buzz of the great
flies was loud again.

"Miss Manette, have you seen the prisoner before?"

"Yes, sir."

"Where?"

"On board of the packet-ship just now referred to, sir, and on the
same occasion."

"You are the young lady just now referred to?"

"O! most unhappily, I am!"

The plaintive tone of her compassion merged into the less musical
voice of the Judge, as he said something fiercely: 
"Answer the questions put to you, and make no remark upon them."

"Miss Manette, had you any conversation with the prisoner on that
passage across the Channel?"

"Yes, sir."

"Recall it."

In the midst of a profound stillness, she faintly began:  "When the
gentleman came on board--"

"Do you mean the prisoner?" inquired the Judge, knitting his brows.

"Yes, my Lord."

"Then say the prisoner."

"When the prisoner came on board, he noticed that my father," turning
her eyes lovingly to him as he stood beside her, "was much fatigued
and in a very weak state of health.  My father was so reduced that I
was afraid to take him out of the air, and I had made a bed for him
on the deck near the cabin steps, and I sat on the deck at his side
to take care of him.  There were no other passengers that night, but
we four.  The prisoner was so good as to beg permission to advise me
how I could shelter my father from the wind and weather, better than
I had done.  I had not known how to do it well, not understanding how
the wind would set when we were out of the harbour.  He did it for me.
He expressed great gentleness and kindness for my father's state, and
I am sure he felt it.  That was the manner of our beginning to speak
together."

"Let me interrupt you for a moment.  Had he come on board alone?"

"No."

"How many were with him?"

"Two French gentlemen."

"Had they conferred together?"

"They had conferred together until the last moment, when it was
necessary for the French gentlemen to be landed in their boat."

"Had any papers been handed about among them, similar to these lists?"

"Some papers had been handed about among them, but I don't know what
papers."

"Like these in shape and size?"

"Possibly, but indeed I don't know, although they stood whispering
very near to me:  because they stood at the top of the cabin steps to
have the light of the lamp that was hanging there; it was a dull lamp,
and they spoke very low, and I did not hear what they said, and saw
only that they looked at papers."

"Now, to the prisoner's conversation, Miss Manette."

"The prisoner was as open in his confidence with me--which arose out
of my helpless situation--as he was kind, and good, and useful to my
father.  I hope," bursting into tears, "I may not repay him by doing
him harm to-day."

Buzzing from the blue-flies.

"Miss Manette, if the prisoner does not perfectly understand that you
give the evidence which it is your duty to give--which you must give--
and which you cannot escape from giving--with great unwillingness,
he is the only person present in that condition.  Please to go on."

"He told me that he was travelling on business of a delicate and
difficult nature, which might get people into trouble, and that he
was therefore travelling under an assumed name.  He said that this
business had, within a few days, taken him to France, and might,
at intervals, take him backwards and forwards between France and
England for a long time to come."

"Did he say anything about America, Miss Manette?  Be particular."

"He tried to explain to me how that quarrel had arisen, and he said that,
so far as he could judge, it was a wrong and foolish one on England's
part.  He added, in a jesting way, that perhaps George Washington
might gain almost as great a name in history as George the Third.
But there was no harm in his way of saying this:  it was said laughingly,
and to beguile the time."

Any strongly marked expression of face on the part of a chief actor
in a scene of great interest to whom many eyes are directed, will be
unconsciously imitated by the spectators.  Her forehead was painfully
anxious and intent as she gave this evidence, and, in the pauses when
she stopped for the Judge to write it down, watched its effect upon
the counsel for and against.  Among the lookers-on there was the same
expression in all quarters of the court; insomuch, that a great
majority of the foreheads there, might have been mirrors reflecting
the witness, when the Judge looked up from his notes to glare at that
tremendous heresy about George Washington.

Mr. Attorney-General now signified to my Lord, that he deemed it
necessary, as a matter of precaution and form, to call the young
lady's father, Doctor Manette.  Who was called accordingly.

"Doctor Manette, look upon the prisoner.  Have you ever seen him before?"

"Once.  When he caged at my lodgings in London.  Some three years, or
three years and a half ago."

"Can you identify him as your fellow-passenger on board the packet,
or speak to his conversation with your daughter?"

"Sir, I can do neither."

"Is there any particular and special reason for your being unable to
do either?"

He answered, in a low voice, "There is."

"Has it been your misfortune to undergo a long imprisonment, without
trial, or even accusation, in your native country, Doctor Manette?"

He answered, in a tone that went to every heart, "A long imprisonment."

"Were you newly released on the occasion in question?"

"They tell me so."

"Have you no remembrance of the occasion?"

"None.  My mind is a blank, from some time--I cannot even say what time--
when I employed myself, in my captivity, in making shoes,
to the time when I found myself living in London with my dear
daughter here.  She had become familiar to me, when a gracious God
restored my faculties; but, I am quite unable even to say how she
had become familiar.  I have no remembrance of the process."

Mr. Attorney-General sat down, and the father and daughter sat down together.

A singular circumstance then arose in the case.  The object in hand
being to show that the prisoner went down, with some fellow-plotter
untracked, in the Dover mail on that Friday night in November five
years ago, and got out of the mail in the night, as a blind, at a
place where he did not remain, but from which he travelled back some
dozen miles or more, to a garrison and dockyard, and there collected
information; a witness was called to identify him as having been at
the precise time required, in the coffee-room of an hotel in that
garrison-and-dockyard town, waiting for another person.  The prisoner's
counsel was cross-examining this witness with no result, except that
he had never seen the prisoner on any other occasion, when the wigged
gentleman who had all this time been looking at the ceiling of the
court, wrote a word or two on a little piece of paper, screwed it up,
and tossed it to him.  Opening this piece of paper in the next pause,
the counsel looked with great attention and curiosity at the prisoner.

"You say again you are quite sure that it was the prisoner?"

The witness was quite sure.

"Did you ever see anybody very like the prisoner?"

Not so like (the witness said) as that he could be mistaken.

"Look well upon that gentleman, my learned friend there," pointing to
him who had tossed the paper over, "and then look well upon the prisoner. 
How say you?  Are they very like each other?"

Allowing for my learned friend's appearance being careless and
slovenly if not debauched, they were sufficiently like each other to
surprise, not only the witness, but everybody present, when they were
thus brought into comparison.  My Lord being prayed to bid my learned
friend lay aside his wig, and giving no very gracious consent, the
likeness became much more remarkable.  My Lord inquired of Mr. Stryver
(the prisoner's counsel), whether they were next to try Mr. Carton
(name of my learned friend) for treason?  But, Mr. Stryver replied to
my Lord, no; but he would ask the witness to tell him whether what
happened once, might happen twice; whether he would have been so
confident if he had seen this illustration of his rashness sooner,
whether he would be so confident, having seen it; and more.
The upshot of which, was, to smash this witness like a crockery vessel,
and shiver his part of the case to useless lumber.

Mr. Cruncher had by this time taken quite a lunch of rust off his
fingers in his following of the evidence.  He had now to attend while
Mr. Stryver fitted the prisoner's case on the jury, like a compact
suit of clothes; showing them how the patriot, Barsad, was a hired spy
and traitor, an unblushing trafficker in blood, and one of the greatest
scoundrels upon earth since accursed Judas--which he certainly did
look rather like.  How the virtuous servant, Cly, was his friend and
partner, and was worthy to be; how the watchful eyes of those forgers
and false swearers had rested on the prisoner as a victim, because
some family affairs in France, he being of French extraction, did
require his making those passages across the Channel--though what
those affairs were, a consideration for others who were near and dear
to him, forbade him, even for his life, to disclose.  How the evidence
that had been warped and wrested from the young lady, whose anguish in
giving it they had witnessed, came to nothing, involving the mere
little innocent gallantries and politenesses likely to pass between
any young gentleman and young lady so thrown together;--with the
exception of that reference to George Washington, which was altogether
too extravagant and impossible to be regarded in any other light than
as a monstrous joke.  How it would be a weakness in the government to
break down in this attempt to practise for popularity on the lowest
national antipathies and fears, and therefore Mr. Attorney-General had
made the most of it; how, nevertheless, it rested upon nothing, save
that vile and infamous character of evidence too often disfiguring
such cases, and of which the State Trials of this country were full.
But, there my Lord interposed (with as grave a face as if it had not
been true), saying that he could not sit upon that Bench and suffer
those allusions.

Mr. Stryver then called his few witnesses, and Mr. Cruncher had next
to attend while Mr. Attorney-General turned the whole suit of clothes
Mr. Stryver had fitted on the jury, inside out; showing how Barsad and
Cly were even a hundred times better than he had thought them, and the
prisoner a hundred times worse.  Lastly, came my Lord himself, turning
the suit of clothes, now inside out, now outside in, but on the whole
decidedly trimming and shaping them into grave-clothes for the
prisoner.

And now, the jury turned to consider, and the great flies swarmed again.

Mr. Carton, who had so long sat looking at the ceiling of the court,
changed neither his place nor his attitude, even in this excitement.
While his teamed friend, Mr. Stryver, massing his papers before him,
whispered with those who sat near, and from time to time glanced
anxiously at the jury; while all the spectators moved more or less,
and grouped themselves anew; while even my Lord himself arose from his
seat, and slowly paced up and down his platform, not unattended by a
suspicion in the minds of the audience that his state was feverish;
this one man sat leaning back, with his torn gown half off him, his
untidy wig put on just as it had happened to fight on his head after
its removal, his hands in his pockets, and his eyes on the ceiling as
they had been all day.  Something especially reckless in his demeanour,
not only gave him a disreputable look, but so diminished the strong
resemblance he undoubtedly bore to the prisoner (which his momentary
earnestness, when they were compared together, had strengthened),
that many of the lookers-on, taking note of him now, said to one
another they would hardly have thought the two were so alike.
Mr. Cruncher made the observation to his next neighbour, and added,
"I'd hold half a guinea that HE don't get no law-work to do. 
Don't look like the sort of one to get any, do he?"

Yet, this Mr. Carton took in more of the details of the scene than he
appeared to take in; for now, when Miss Manette's head dropped upon
her father's breast, he was the first to see it, and to say audibly:
"Officer! look to that young lady.  Help the gentleman to take her out.
Don't you see she will fall!"

There was much commiseration for her as she was removed, and much
sympathy with her father.  It had evidently been a great distress to
him, to have the days of his imprisonment recalled.  He had shown
strong internal agitation when he was questioned, and that pondering
or brooding look which made him old, had been upon him, like a heavy
cloud, ever since.  As he passed out, the jury, who had turned back
and paused a moment, spoke, through their foreman.

They were not agreed, and wished to retire.  My Lord (perhaps with
George Washington on his mind) showed some surprise that they were not
agreed, but signified his pleasure that they should retire under watch
and ward, and retired himself.  The trial had lasted all day, and the
lamps in the court were now being lighted.  It began to be rumoured
that the jury would be out a long while.  The spectators dropped off
to get refreshment, and the prisoner withdrew to the back of the dock,
and sat down.

Mr. Lorry, who had gone out when the young lady and her father went out,
now reappeared, and beckoned to Jerry:  who, in the slackened interest,
could easily get near him.

"Jerry, if you wish to take something to eat, you can.  But, keep in
the way.  You will be sure to hear when the jury come in.  Don't be a
moment behind them, for I want you to take the verdict back to the bank.
You are the quickest messenger I know, and will get to Temple Bar long
before I can."

Jerry had just enough forehead to knuckle, and he knuckled it in
acknowedgment of this communication and a shilling.  Mr. Carton came
up at the moment, and touched Mr. Lorry on the arm.

"How is the young lady?"

"She is greatly distressed; but her father is comforting her, and she
feels the better for being out of court."

"I'll tell the prisoner so.  It won't do for a respectable bank
gentleman like you, to be seen speaking to him publicly, you know."

Mr. Lorry reddened as if he were conscious of having debated the point
in his mind, and Mr. Carton made his way to the outside of the bar.
The way out of court lay in that direction, and Jerry followed him,
all eyes, ears, and spikes.

"Mr. Darnay!"

The prisoner came forward directly.

"You will naturally be anxious to hear of the witness, Miss Manette.
She will do very well.  You have seen the worst of her agitation."

"I am deeply sorry to have been the cause of it.  Could you tell her
so for me, with my fervent acknowledgments?"

"Yes, I could.  I will, if you ask it."

Mr. Carton's manner was so careless as to be almost insolent.  He stood,
half turned from the prisoner, lounging with his elbow against the bar.

"I do ask it.  Accept my cordial thanks."

"What," said Carton, still only half turned towards him, "do you
expect, Mr. Darnay?"

"The worst."

"It's the wisest thing to expect, and the likeliest.  But I think
their withdrawing is in your favour."

Loitering on the way out of court not being allowed, Jerry heard no
more:  but left them--so like each other in feature, so unlike each
other in manner--standing side by side, both reflected in the glass
above them.

An hour and a half limped heavily away in the thief-and-rascal crowded
passages below, even though assisted off with mutton pies and ale.
The hoarse messenger, uncomfortably seated on a form after taking that
refection, had dropped into a doze, when a loud murmur and a rapid
tide of people setting up the stairs that led to the court, carried
him along with them.

"Jerry!  Jerry!"  Mr. Lorry was already calling at the door when
he got there.

"Here, sir!  It's a fight to get back again.  Here I am, sir!"

Mr. Lorry handed him a paper through the throng.
"Quick!  Have you got it?"

"Yes, sir."

Hastily written on the paper was the word "AQUITTED."

"If you had sent the message, `Recalled to Life,' again," muttered
Jerry, as he turned, "I should have known what you meant, this time."

He had no opportunity of saying, or so much as thinking, anything
else, until he was clear of the Old Bailey; for, the crowd came
pouring out with a vehemence that nearly took him off his legs, and a
loud buzz swept into the street as if the baffled blue-flies were
dispersing in search of other carrion.



IV

Congratulatory


From the dimly-lighted passages of the court, the last sediment of the
human stew that had been boiling there all day, was straining off,
when Doctor Manette, Lucie Manette, his daughter, Mr. Lorry, the
solicitor for the defence, and its counsel, Mr. Stryver, stood
gathered round Mr. Charles Darnay--just released--congratulating him
on his escape from death.

It would have been difficult by a far brighter light, to recognise in
Doctor Manette, intellectual of face and upright of bearing, the
shoemaker of the garret in Paris.  Yet, no one could have looked at
him twice, without looking again:  even though the opportunity of
observation had not extended to the mournful cadence of his low grave
voice, and to the abstraction that overclouded him fitfully, without
any apparent reason.  While one external cause, and that a reference
to his long lingering agony, would always--as on the trial--evoke this
condition from the depths of his soul, it was also in its nature to
arise of itself, and to draw a gloom over him, as incomprehensible to
those unacquainted with his story as if they had seen the shadow of
the actual Bastille thrown upon him by a summer sun, when the
substance was three hundred miles away.

Only his daughter had the power of charming this black brooding from
his mind.  She was the golden thread that united him to a Past beyond
his misery, and to a Present beyond his misery:  and the sound of her
voice, the light of her face, the touch of her hand, had a strong
beneficial influence with him almost always.  Not absolutely always,
for she could recall some occasions on which her power had failed;
but they were few and slight, and she believed them over.

Mr. Darnay had kissed her hand fervently and gratefully, and had
turned to Mr. Stryver, whom he warmly thanked.  Mr. Stryver, a man of
little more than thirty, but looking twenty years older than he was,
stout, loud, red, bluff, and free from any drawback of delicacy,
had a pushing way of shouldering himself (morally and physically)
into companies and conversations, that argued well for his shouldering
his way up in life.

He still had his wig and gown on, and he said, squaring himself at his
late client to that degree that he squeezed the innocent Mr. Lorry
clean out of the group:  "I am glad to have brought you off with honour,
Mr. Darnay.  It was an infamous prosecution, grossly infamous;
but not the less likely to succeed on that account."

"You have laid me under an obligation to you for life--in two senses,"
said his late client, taking his hand.

"I have done my best for you, Mr. Darnay; and my best is as good as
another man's, I believe."

It clearly being incumbent on some one to say, "Much better," Mr. Lorry
said it; perhaps not quite disinterestedly, but with the interested
object of squeezing himself back again.

"You think so?" said Mr. Stryver.  "Well! you have been present all day,
and you ought to know.  You are a man of business, too."

"And as such," quoth Mr. Lorry, whom the counsel learned in the law
had now shouldered back into the group, just as he had previously
shouldered him out of it--"as such I will appeal to Doctor Manette,
to break up this conference and order us all to our homes.
Miss Lucie looks ill, Mr. Darnay has had a terrible day, we are worn out."

"Speak for yourself, Mr. Lorry," said Stryver; "I have a night's work
to do yet.  Speak for yourself."

"I speak for myself," answered Mr. Lorry, "and for Mr. Darnay, and for
Miss Lucie, and--Miss Lucie, do you not think I may speak for us all?"
He asked her the question pointedly, and with a glance at her father.

His face had become frozen, as it were, in a very curious look at
Darnay:  an intent look, deepening into a frown of dislike and distrust,
not even unmixed with fear.  With this strange expression on him his
thoughts had wandered away.

"My father," said Lucie, softly laying her hand on his.

He slowly shook the shadow off, and turned to her.

"Shall we go home, my father?"

With a long breath, he answered "Yes."

The friends of the acquitted prisoner had dispersed, under the
impression--which he himself had originated--that he would not be
released that night.  The lights were nearly all extinguished in the
passages, the iron gates were being closed with a jar and a rattle,
and the dismal place was deserted until to-morrow morning's interest
of gallows, pillory, whipping-post, and branding-iron, should repeople
it.  Walking between her father and Mr. Darnay, Lucie Manette passed
into the open air.  A hackney-coach was called, and the father and
daughter departed in it.

Mr. Stryver had left them in the passages, to shoulder his way back
to the robing-room.  Another person, who had not joined the group,
or interchanged a word with any one of them, but who had been leaning
against the wall where its shadow was darkest, had silently strolled
out after the rest, and had looked on until the coach drove away.
He now stepped up to where Mr. Lorry and Mr. Darnay stood upon the
pavement.

"So, Mr. Lorry!  Men of business may speak to Mr. Darnay now?"

Nobody had made any acknowledgment of Mr. Carton's part in the day's
proceedings; nobody had known of it.  He was unrobed, and was none
the better for it in appearance.

"If you knew what a conflict goes on in the business mind, when the
business mind is divided between good-natured impulse and business
appearances, you would be amused, Mr. Darnay."

Mr. Lorry reddened, and said, warmly, "You have mentioned that before,
sir.  We men of business, who serve a House, are not our own masters.
We have to think of the House more than ourselves."

"_I_ know, _I_ know," rejoined Mr. Carton, carelessly.  "Don't be
nettled, Mr. Lorry.  You are as good as another, I have no doubt:
better, I dare say."

"And indeed, sir," pursued Mr. Lorry, not minding him, "I really
don't know what you have to do with the matter.  If you'll excuse me,
as very much your elder, for saying so, I really don't know that it is
your business."

"Business!  Bless you, _I_ have no business," said Mr. Carton.

"It is a pity you have not, sir."

"I think so, too."

"If you had," pursued Mr. Lorry, "perhaps you would attend to it."

"Lord love you, no!--I shouldn't," said Mr. Carton.

"Well, sir!" cried Mr. Lorry, thoroughly heated by his indifference,
"business is a very good thing, and a very respectable thing.  And, sir,
if business imposes its restraints and its silences and impediments,
Mr. Darnay as a young gentleman of generosity knows how to make allowance
for that circumstance.  Mr. Darnay, good night, God bless you, sir!
I hope you have been this day preserved for a prosperous and happy
life.--Chair there!"

Perhaps a little angry with himself, as well as with the barrister,
Mr. Lorry bustled into the chair, and was carried off to Tellson's.
Carton, who smelt of port wine, and did not appear to be quite sober,
laughed then, and turned to Darnay:

"This is a strange chance that throws you and me together.  This must
be a strange night to you, standing alone here with your counterpart
on these street stones?"

"I hardly seem yet," returned Charles Darnay, "to belong to this world
again."

"I don't wonder at it; it's not so long since you were pretty far
advanced on your way to another.  You speak faintly."

"I begin to think I AM faint."

"Then why the devil don't you dine?  I dined, myself, while those
numskulls were deliberating which world you should belong to--this,
or some other.  Let me show you the nearest tavern to dine well at."

Drawing his arm through his own, he took him down Ludgate-hill to
Fleet-street, and so, up a covered way, into a tavern.  Here, they
were shown into a little room, where Charles Darnay was soon recruiting
his strength with a good plain dinner and good wine:  while Carton sat
opposite to him at the same table, with his separate bottle of port
before him, and his fully half-insolent manner upon him.

"Do you feel, yet, that you belong to this terrestrial scheme again,
Mr. Darnay?"

"I am frightfully confused regarding time and place; but I am so far
mended as to feel that."

"It must be an immense satisfaction!"

He said it bitterly, and filled up his glass again:  which was a large one.

"As to me, the greatest desire I have, is to forget that I belong to
it.  It has no good in it for me--except wine like this--nor I for it.
So we are not much alike in that particular.  Indeed, I begin to think
we are not much alike in any particular, you and I."

Confused by the emotion of the day, and feeling his being there with
this Double of coarse deportment, to be like a dream, Charles Darnay
was at a loss how to answer; finally, answered not at all.

"Now your dinner is done," Carton presently said, "why don't you call
a health, Mr. Darnay; why don't you give your toast?"

"What health?  What toast?"

"Why, it's on the tip of your tongue.  It ought to be, it must be,
I'll swear it's there."

"Miss Manette, then!"

"Miss Manette, then!"

Looking his companion full in the face while he drank the toast,
Carton flung his glass over his shoulder against the wall, where it
shivered to pieces; then, rang the bell, and ordered in another.

"That's a fair young lady to hand to a coach in the dark, Mr. Darnay!"
he said, ruing his new goblet.

A slight frown and a laconic "Yes," were the answer.

"That's a fair young lady to be pitied by and wept for by!  How does it
feel?  Is it worth being tried for one's life, to be the object of such
sympathy and compassion, Mr. Darnay?"

Again Darnay answered not a word.

"She was mightily pleased to have your message, when I gave it her.
Not that she showed she was pleased, but I suppose she was."

The allusion served as a timely reminder to Darnay that this
disagreeable companion had, of his own free will, assisted him in the
strait of the day.  He turned the dialogue to that point, and thanked
him for it.

"I neither want any thanks, nor merit any," was the careless rejoinder.
"It was nothing to do, in the first place; and I don't know why I did it,
in the second.  Mr. Darnay, let me ask you a question."

"Willingly, and a small return for your good offices."

"Do you think I particularly like you?"

"Really, Mr. Carton," returned the other, oddly disconcerted, "I have
not asked myself the question."

"But ask yourself the question now."

"You have acted as if you do; but I don't think you do."

"_I_ don't think I do," said Carton.  "I begin to have a very good
opinion of your understanding."

"Nevertheless," pursued Darnay, rising to ring the bell, "there is
nothing in that, I hope, to prevent my calling the reckoning, and our
parting without ill-blood on either side."

Carton rejoining, "Nothing in life!" Darnay rang.  "Do you call the
whole reckoning?" said Carton.  On his answering in the affirmative,
"Then bring me another pint of this same wine, drawer, and come and
wake me at ten."

The bill being paid, Charles Darnay rose and wished him good night.
Without returning the wish, Carton rose too, with something of a
threat of defiance in his manner, and said, "A last word, Mr. Darnay:
you think I am drunk?"

"I think you have been drinking, Mr. Carton."

"Think?  You know I have been drinking."

"Since I must say so, I know it."

"Then you shall likewise know why.  I am a disappointed drudge, sir.
I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me."

"Much to be regretted.  You might have used your talents better."

"May be so, Mr. Darnay; may be not.  Don't let your sober face elate you,
however; you don't know what it may come to.  Good night!"

When he was left alone, this strange being took up a candle, went to a
glass that hung against the wall, and surveyed himself minutely in it.

"Do you particularly like the man?" he muttered, at his own image;
"why should you particularly like a man who resembles you?  There is
nothing in you to like; you know that.  Ah, confound you!  What a
change you have made in yourself!  A good reason for taking to a man,
that he shows you what you have fallen away from, and what you might
have been!  Change places with him, and would you have been looked at
by those blue eyes as he was, and commiserated by that agitated face
as he was?  Come on, and have it out in plain words!  You hate the fellow."

He resorted to his pint of wine for consolation, drank it all in a
few minutes, and fell asleep on his arms, with his hair straggling
over the table, and a long winding-sheet in the candle dripping down
upon him.



V

The Jackal


Those were drinking days, and most men drank hard.  So very great is
the improvement Time has brought about in such habits, that a moderate
statement of the quantity of wine and punch which one man would swallow
in the course of a night, without any detriment to his reputation as a
perfect gentleman, would seem, in these days, a ridiculous exaggeration.
The learned profession of the law was certainly not behind any other
learned profession in its Bacchanalian propensities; neither was
Mr. Stryver, already fast shouldering his way to a large and lucrative
practice, behind his compeers in this particular, any more than in the
drier parts of the legal race.

A favourite at the Old Bailey, and eke at the Sessions, Mr. Stryver
had begun cautiously to hew away the lower staves of the ladder on
which he mounted.  Sessions and Old Bailey had now to summon their
favourite, specially, to their longing arms; and shouldering itself
towards the visage of the Lord Chief Justice in the Court of King's
Bench, the florid countenance of Mr. Stryver might be daily seen,
bursting out of the bed of wigs, like a great sunflower pushing its
way at the sun from among a rank garden-full of flaring companions.

It had once been noted at the Bar, that while Mr. Stryver was a glib
man, and an unscrupulous, and a ready, and a bold, he had not that
faculty of extracting the essence from a heap of statements, which is
among the most striking and necessary of the advocate's accomplishments.
But, a remarkable improvement came upon him as to this.  The more
business he got, the greater his power seemed to grow of getting at
its pith and marrow; and however late at night he sat carousing with
Sydney Carton, he always had his points at his fingers' ends in the morning.

Sydney Carton, idlest and most unpromising of men, was Stryver's great
ally.  What the two drank together, between Hilary Term and Michaelmas,
might have floated a king's ship.  Stryver never had a case in hand,
anywhere, but Carton was there, with his hands in his pockets, staring
at the ceiling of the court; they went the same Circuit, and even there
they prolonged their usual orgies late into the night, and Carton was
rumoured to be seen at broad day, going home stealthily and unsteadily
to his lodgings, like a dissipated cat.  At last, it began to get about,
among such as were interested in the matter, that although Sydney Carton
would never be a lion, he was an amazingly good jackal, and that he
rendered suit and service to Stryver in that humble capacity.

"Ten o'clock, sir," said the man at the tavern, whom he had charged to
wake him--"ten o'clock, sir."

"WHAT'S the matter?"

"Ten o'clock, sir."

"What do you mean?  Ten o'clock at night?"

"Yes, sir.  Your honour told me to call you."

"Oh!  I remember.  Very well, very well."

After a few dull efforts to get to sleep again, which the man dexterously
combated by stirring the fire continuously for five minutes, he got up,
tossed his hat on, and walked out.  He turned into the Temple, and,
having revived himself by twice pacing the pavements of King's Bench-walk
and Paper-buildings, turned into the Stryver chambers.

The Stryver clerk, who never assisted at these conferences, had gone home,
and the Stryver principal opened the door.  He had his slippers on,
and a loose bed-gown, and his throat was bare for his greater ease.
He had that rather wild, strained, seared marking about the eyes,
which may be observed in all free livers of his class, from the portrait
of Jeffries downward, and which can be traced, under various disguises
of Art, through the portraits of every Drinking Age.

"You are a little late, Memory," said Stryver.

"About the usual time; it may be a quarter of an hour later."

They went into a dingy room lined with books and littered with papers,
where there was a blazing fire.  A kettle steamed upon the hob, and in
the midst of the wreck of papers a table shone, with plenty of wine
upon it, and brandy, and rum, and sugar, and lemons.

"You have had your bottle, I perceive, Sydney."

"Two to-night, I think.  I have been dining with the day's client;
or seeing him dine--it's all one!"

"That was a rare point, Sydney, that you brought to bear upon the
identification.  How did you come by it?  When did it strike you?"

"I thought he was rather a handsome fellow, and I thought I should
have been much the same sort of fellow, if I had had any luck."

Mr. Stryver laughed till he shook his precocious paunch.

"You and your luck, Sydney!  Get to work, get to work."

Sullenly enough, the jackal loosened his dress, went into an adjoining
room, and came back with a large jug of cold water, a basin, and a towel
or two.  Steeping the towels in the water, and partially wringing them
out, he folded them on his head in a manner hideous to behold, sat down
at the table, and said, "Now I am ready!"

"Not much boiling down to be done to-night, Memory," said Mr. Stryver,
gaily, as he looked among his papers.

"How much?"

"Only two sets of them."

"Give me the worst first."

"There they are, Sydney.  Fire away!"

The lion then composed himself on his back on a sofa on one side of
the drinking-table, while the jackal sat at his own paper-bestrewn
table proper, on the other side of it, with the bottles and glasses
ready to his hand.  Both resorted to the drinking-table without
stint, but each in a different way; the lion for the most part
reclining with his hands in his waistband, looking at the fire, or
occasionally flirting with some lighter document; the jackal, with
knitted brows and intent face, so deep in his task, that his eyes did
not even follow the hand he stretched out for his glass--which often
groped about, for a minute or more, before it found the glass for his
lips.  Two or three times, the matter in hand became so knotty, that
the jackal found it imperative on him to get up, and steep his towels
anew.  From these pilgrimages to the jug and basin, he returned with
such eccentricities of damp headgear as no words can describe; which
were made the more ludicrous by his anxious gravity.

At length the jackal had got together a compact repast for the lion,
and proceeded to offer it to him.  The lion took it with care and
caution, made his selections from it, and his remarks upon it,
and the jackal assisted both.  When the repast was fully discussed,
the lion put his hands in his waistband again, and lay down to mediate.
The jackal then invigorated himself with a bum for his throttle,
and a fresh application to his head, and applied himself to the
collection of a second meal; this was administered to the lion in the
same manner, and was not disposed of until the clocks struck three in
the morning.

"And now we have done, Sydney, fill a bumper of punch," said Mr. Stryver.

The jackal removed the towels from his head, which had been steaming
again, shook himself, yawned, shivered, and complied.

"You were very sound, Sydney, in the matter of those crown witnesses
to-day.  Every question told."

"I always am sound; am I not?"

"I don't gainsay it.  What has roughened your temper?
Put some punch to it and smooth it again."

With a deprecatory grunt, the jackal again complied.

"The old Sydney Carton of old Shrewsbury School," said Stryver,
nodding his head over him as he reviewed him in the present and the
past, "the old seesaw Sydney.  Up one minute and down the next; now
in spirits and now in despondency!"

"Ah!" returned the other, sighing:  "yes!  The same Sydney, with the
same luck.  Even then, I did exercises for other boys, and seldom did
my own.

"And why not?"

"God knows.  It was my way, I suppose."

He sat, with his hands in his pockets and his legs stretched out
before him, looking at the fire.

"Carton," said his friend, squaring himself at him with a bullying
air, as if the fire-grate had been the furnace in which sustained
endeavour was forged, and the one delicate thing to be done for the
old Sydney Carton of old Shrewsbury School was to shoulder him into it,
"your way is, and always was, a lame way.  You summon no energy and
purpose.  Look at me."

"Oh, botheration!" returned Sydney, with a lighter and more good-
humoured laugh, "don't YOU be moral!"

"How have I done what I have done?" said Stryver; "how do I do what I do?"

"Partly through paying me to help you, I suppose.  But it's not worth
your while to apostrophise me, or the air, about it; what you want to
do, you do.  You were always in the front rank, and I was always behind."

"I had to get into the front rank; I was not born there, was I?"

"I was not present at the ceremony; but my opinion is you were," said
Carton.  At this, he laughed again, and they both laughed.

"Before Shrewsbury, and at Shrewsbury, and ever since Shrewsbury,"
pursued Carton, "you have fallen into your rank, and I have fallen
into mine.  Even when we were fellow-students in the Student-Quarter
of Paris, picking up French, and French law, and other French crumbs
that we didn't get much good of, you were always somewhere, and I was
always nowhere."

"And whose fault was that?"

"Upon my soul, I am not sure that it was not yours.  You were always
driving and riving and shouldering and passing, to that restless
degree that I had no chance for my life but in rust and repose.  It's
a gloomy thing, however, to talk about one's own past, with the day
breaking.  Turn me in some other direction before I go."

"Well then!  Pledge me to the pretty witness," said Stryver, holding
up his glass.  "Are you turned in a pleasant direction?"

Apparently not, for he became gloomy again.

"Pretty witness," he muttered, looking down into his glass.  "I have
had enough of witnesses to-day and to-night; who's your pretty
witness?"

"The picturesque doctor's daughter, Miss Manette."

"SHE pretty?"

"Is she not?"

"No."

"Why, man alive, she was the admiration of the whole Court!"

"Rot the admiration of the whole Court!  Who made the Old Bailey a
judge of beauty?  She was a golden-haired doll!"

"Do you know, Sydney," said Mr. Stryver, looking at him with sharp
eyes, and slowly drawing a hand across his florid face:  "do you know,
I rather thought, at the time, that you sympathised with the
golden-haired doll, and were quick to see what happened to the
golden-haired doll?"

"Quick to see what happened!  If a girl, doll or no doll, swoons
within a yard or two of a man's nose, he can see it without a
perspective-glass.  I pledge you, but I deny the beauty.
And now I'll have no more drink; I'll get to bed."

When his host followed him out on the staircase with a candle,
to light him down the stairs, the day was coldly looking in through
its grimy windows.  When he got out of t
attor disappDisappointment 
                                      1258
                             THE GULISTAN OF SA'DI
                      by Sheikh Muslih-uddin Sa'di Shirazi
INTRODUCTORY
                       INTRODUCTORY
        IN THE NAME OF ALLAH THE MERCIFUL THE CLEMENT

  Laudation to the God of majesty and glory! Obedience to him is a
cause of approach and gratitude in increase of benefits. Every
inhalation of the breath prolongs life and every expiration of it
gladdens our nature; wherefore every breath confers two benefits and
for every benefit gratitude is due.

        Whose hand and tongue is capable
        To fulfil the obligations of thanks to him?

  Words of the most high: Be thankful, O family of David, and but
few of my servants are thankful.

        It is best to a worshipper for his transgressions
        To offer apologies at the throne of God,
        Although what is worthy of his dignity
        No one is able to accomplish.

  The showers of his boundless mercy have penetrated to every spot,
and the banquet of his unstinted liberality is spread out
everywhere. He tears not the veil of reputation of his worshippers
even for grievous sins, and does not withhold their daily allowance of
bread for great crimes.

        O bountiful One, who from thy invisible treasury
        Suppliest the Guebre and the Christian with food,
        How could'st thou disappoint thy friends,
        Whilst having regard for thy enemies?

  He told the chamberlain of the morning breeze to spread out the
emerald carpet and, having commanded the nurse of vernal clouds to
cherish the daughters of plants in the cradle of the earth, the
trees donned the new year's robe and clothed their breast with the
garment of green foliage, whilst their offspring, the branches,
adorned their heads with blossoms at the approach of the season of the
roses. Also the juice of the cane became delicious honey by his power,
and the date a lofty tree by his care.

        Cloud and wind, moon and sun move in the sky
        That thou mayest gain bread, and not eat it unconcerned.
        For thee all are revolving and obedient.
        It is against the requirements of justice if thou obeyest not.

  There is a tradition of the prince of created beings, the paragon of
existing things, the mercy to the inhabitants of the world, the purest
of mankind and the completion of the revolving ages, Muhammad the
elect, upon whom be blessing and peace:

        Intercessor, obeyed, prophet, gracious,
        Bountiful, majestic, affable, marked with the seal of God.

  What danger is there to the wall of the faithful with thee for a
    buttress?

  What fear of the waves of the sea has he whose pilot is Noah?

        He attained exaltation by his perfection.
        He disspelled darkness by his beauty.
        Beauteous are all his qualities,
        Benediction be on him and on his family.

  The tradition is that whenever a sinful and distressed worshipper
stretches forth the hand of repentance with hopes of acceptance to the
court of heaven, God the most high does not notice him, whereon he
continues to implore mercy with supplications and tears and God the
most holy says: O my angels, verily I am ashamed of my servant and
he has no other lord besides myself. Accordingly I have fully pardoned
him.

        See the generosity and kindness of God.
        The servant has committed sin and he is ashamed.

  Those who attend permanently at the temple of his glory confess
the imperfection of their worship and say: We have not worshipped thee
according to the requirements of thy worship; and those who describe
the splendour of his beauty are rapt in amazement saying: We have
not known thee as thou oughtest to be known.

        If someone asks me for his description,
        What shall I despairing say of One who has no form?
        The lovers have been slain by the beloved.
        No voice can come from the slain.

  One of the devout who had deeply plunged his head into the cowl of
meditation and had been immersed in the ocean of visions, was asked,
when he had come out of that state, by one of his companions who had
desired to cheer him up: 'What beautiful gift hast thou brought us
from the garden in which thou hast been?' He replied: 'I intended to
fill the skirts of my robe with roses, when I reached the rose-tree,
as presents for my friends but the perfume of the flowers
intoxicated me so much that I let, go the hold of my skirts.'

        O bird of the morning, learn love from the moth
        Because it burnt, lost its life, and found no voice.
        These pretenders are ignorantly in search of Him,
        Because he who obtained knowledge has not returned.

  O thou who art above all imaginations, conjectures, opinions and
    ideas,
  Above anything people have said or we have heard or read,
  The assembly is finished and life has reached its term
  And we have, as at first, remained powerless in describing thee.


                PANEGYRIC OF THE PADSHAH OF ISLAM
                  may Allah perpetuate his reign

  The good reputation of Sa'di which is current among the people,
the renown of his eloquence which has spread on the surface of the
earth, the products of his friendly pen which are consumed like sugar,
and the scraps of his literary compositions which are hawked about
like bills of exchange, cannot be ascribed to his virtue and
perfection, but the lord of the world, the axis of the revolving
circle of time, the vice-gerent of Solomon, protector of the followers
of the religion, His Majesty the Shahanshah Atabek Aa'zm Muzaffaruddin
Abu Bekr Ben Sa'd Ben Zanki-The shadow of Allah on earth! O Lord, be
pleased with him and with his kingdom-has looked upon Sa'di with a
favourable eye, has praised him greatly, and has shown him sincere
affection so that all men, gentle and simple, love him because the
people follow the religion of their king.

        Because thou lookest upon my humble person,
        My merits are more celebrated than those of the sun.
        Although this slave may possess all faults,
        Every fault pleasing the Sultan becomes a virtue.

        A sweet-smelling piece of clay, one day in the bath,
        Came from the hand of a beloved one to my hand.
        I asked: 'Art thou musk or ambergris?
        Because thy delicious odour intoxicates me.'
        It replied: 'I was a despicable lump of day;
        But for a while in the society of a rose.
        The perfection of my companion took effect on me
        And, if not, I am the same earth which I am.'

  O Allah, favour the Musalmans with the prolongation of his life, and
with an augmentation of his reward for his good qualities and deeds;
exalt the dignities of his friends and governors; annihilate those who
are inimical to him and wish him ill; for the sake of what is recorded
in the verses of the Quran. O Allah, give security protect his son.

  Verily the world is happy through him; may his happiness endure for
    ever
  And may the Lord strengthen him and with the banners of victory.
  Thus the branch will flourish of which he is the root
  Because the beauty of the earth's plants depends on the virtue of
    the seed.

  May God, whose name be exalted and hallowed, keep in security and
peace the pure country of Shiraz until the time of the resurrection,
under the authority of righteous governors and by the exertions of
practical scholars.

        Knowest thou not why I in foreign countries
        Roamed about for a long time?
        I went away from the distress of the Turks because I saw
        The world entangled like the hair of negroes;
        They were all human beings, but
        Like wolves sharp-clawed, for shedding blood.
        When I returned I saw the country at rest,
        The tigers having abandoned the nature of tigers.
        Within a man of good disposition like an angel,
        Without an army like bellicose lions.
        Thus it happened that first I beheld
        The world full of confusion, anxiety and distress;
        Then it became as it is in the days of the just Sultan
        Atabek Abu Bekr Ben Sa'd Zanki.

        The country of Pares dreads not the vicissitudes of time,
        As long as one presides over it like thee, the shadow of God.
        Today no one can point out on the surface of the earth,
        A place like the threshold of thy door, the asylum of comfort.
        On thee is incumbent the protection of the distressed and
          gratitude
        Upon us and reward on God the creator of the world,
        As long as the world and wind endure.

              THE CAUSE FOR COMPOSING THE GULISTAN

  I was one night meditating on the time which had elapsed,
repenting of the life I had squandered and perforating the stony
mansion of my heart with adamantine tears. 1 I uttered the following
verses in conformity with the state of mind:

  Every moment a breath of life is spent,
  If I consider, not much of it remains.
  O thou, whose fifty years have elapsed in sleep,
  Wilt thou perhaps overtake them in these five days?
  Shame on him who has gone and done no work.
  The drum of departure was beaten but he has not made his load.

        Sweet sleep on the morning of departure
        Retains the pedestrian from the road.
        Whoever had come had built a new edifice.
        He departed and left the place to another
        And that other one concocted the same futile schemes
        And this edifice was not completed by anyone.
        Cherish not an inconstant friend.
        Such a traitor is not fit for amity.
        As all the good and bad must surely die,
        He is happy who carries off the ball of virtue.
        Send provision for thy journey to thy tomb.
        Nobody will bring it after thee; send it before.
        Life is snow, the sun is melting hot.
        Little remains, but the gentleman is slothful still.
        O thou who hast gone empty handed to the bazar,
        I fear thou wilt not bring a towel filled.
        Who eats the corn he has sown while it is yet green,
        Must at harvest time glean the ears of it.
        Listen with all thy heart to the advice of Sa'di.
        Such is the way; be a man and travel on.

        The capital of man's life is his abdomen.
        If it be gradually emptied there is no fear
        But if it be so closed as not to open
        The heart may well despair of life;
        And if it be open so that it cannot be closed,
        Go and wash thy hands of this world's life.
        Four contending rebellious dispositions
        Harmonize but five days with each other.
        If one of these four becomes prevalent,
        Sweet life must abandon the body
        Wherefore an intelligent and perfect man
        Sets not his heart upon this world's life.

  After maturely considering these sentiments, I thought proper to sit
down in the mansion of retirement to fold up the skirts of
association, to wash my tablets of heedless sayings and no more to
indulge in senseless prattle:

    To sit in a corner, like one with a cut tongue, deaf and dumb,
    Is better than a man who has no command over his tongue.

  I continued in this resolution till a friend, who had been my
companion in the camel-litter of misery and my comrade in the closet
of affection, entered at the door, according to his old custom with
playful gladness, and spread out the surface of desire; but I would
give him no reply nor lift up my head from the knees of worship. He
looked at me aggrieved and said:

        'Now, while thou hast the power of utterance,
        Speak, O brother, with grace and kindness
        Because tomorrow, when the messenger of death arrives,
        Thou wilt of necessity restrain thy tongue.'

  One of my connections informed him how matters stood and told him
that I had firmly determined and was intent upon spending the rest
of my life in continual devotion and silence, advising him at the same
time, in case he should be able, to follow my example and to keep me
company. He replied: 'I swear by the great dignity of Allah and by our
old friendship that I shall not draw breath, nor budge one step,
unless he converses with me as formerly, and in his usual way; because
it is foolish to insult friends and easy to expiate an oath. It is
against propriety, and contrary to the opinions of wise men that the
Zulfiqar of A'li should remain in the scabbard and the tongue of Sa'di
in his palate.'

        O intelligent man what is the tongue in the mouth?
        It is the key to the treasure-door of a virtuous man.
        When the door is closed how can one know
        Whether he is a seller of jewels or a hawker?

        Although intelligent men consider silence civil,
        It is better for thee to speak at the proper time.
        Two things betoken levity of intellect: to remain mute
        When it is proper to speak and to talk when silence is
          required.

  In short, I had not the firmness to restrain my tongue from speaking
to him, and did not consider it polite to turn away my face from his
conversation, he being a congenial friend and sincerely affectionate.

        When thou fightest with anyone, consider
        Whether thou wilt have to flee from him or he from thee.

  I was under the necessity of speaking and then went out by way of
diversion in the vernal season, when the traces of severe cold had
disappeared and the time of the dominion of roses had arrived:

        Green garments were upon the trees
        Like holiday robes on contented persons.
        On the first of the month Ardibihesht Jellali
        The bulbuls were singing on the pulpits of branches.
        Upon the roses pearls of dew had fallen,
        Resembling perspiration on an angry sweetheart's cheek.

  I happened to spend the night in a garden with one of my friends and
we found it to be a pleasant cheerful place with heart-ravishing
entangled trees; its ground seemed to be paved with small glass
beads whilst, from its vines, bunches like the Pleiads were suspended.

        A garden the water of whose river was limpid
        A grove the melody of whose birds was harmonious.

            The former full of bright-coloured tulips,
            The latter full of fruits of various kinds;
            The wind had in the shade of its trees
            Spread out a bed of all kinds of flowers.

  The next morning when the intention of returning had prevailed
over the opinion of tarrying, I saw that my friend had in his skirt
collected roses, sweet basil, hyacinths and fragrant herbs with the
determination to carry them to town; whereon I said: 'Thou knowest
that the roses of the garden are perishable and the season passes
away', and philosophers have said: 'Whatever is not of long duration
is not to be cherished.' He asked: 'Then what is to be done?' I
replied: 'I may compose for the amusement of those who look and for
the instruction of those who are present a book of a Rose Garden, a
Gulistan, whose leaves cannot be touched by the tyranny of autumnal
blasts and the delight of whose spring the vicissitudes of time will
be unable to change into the inconstancy of autumn.

        Of what use will be a dish of roses to thee?
        Take a leaf from my rose-garden.
        A flower endures but five or six days
        But this rose-garden is always delightful.

  After I had uttered these words he threw away the flowers from his
skirts, and attached himself to mine, saying: 'When a generous
fellow makes a promise he keeps it.'

  On the same day I happened to write two chapters, namely on polite
society and the rules of conversation, in a style acceptable to
orators and instructive to letter-writers. In short, some roses of the
garden still remained when the book of the Rose-garden was finished
but it will in reality be completed only after approbation in the
court of the Shah, who is the refuge of the world, the shadow of
God, the ray of his grace, the treasury of the age, the asylum of
the Faith, strengthened by heaven, aided against enemies, the arm of
the victorious government, the lamp of the resplendent religion, the
beauty of mankind, the boast of Islam, Sa'd son of Atabek the great,
the majestic Shahanshah, owner of the necks of nations, lord of the
kings of Arabia and Persia, the sultan of the land and the sea, the
heir of the kingdom of Solomon, Muzaffaruddin Ibu Bekr, son of Sa'd
Zanki, may Allah the most high perpetuate the prosperity of them
both and direct their inclinations to every good thing.

        Perused with a kind glance,
        Adorned with approbation by the sovereign,
        It will be a Chinese picture-gallery or design of the Arzank,
        Hopes are entertained that he will not be wearied
        By these contents because a Pose-garden is not a place of
          displeasure.
        The more so as its august preface is dedicated
        To Sa'd Abu Bekr Sa'd the son of Zanki.


  RECORD OF THE GREAT AMIR FAKHRUDDIN BEN ABU BEKR, SON OF ABU NASSAR

  Again, the bride of imagination can for want of beauty not lift up
her head nor raise her eyes from the feet of bashfulness to appear
in the assembly of persons endowed with pulchritude, unless adorned
with the ornaments of approbation from the great Amir, who is learned,
just, aided by heaven, victorious, supporter of the throne of the
Sultanate and councillor in deliberations of the realm, refuge of
the poor, asylum of strangers, patron of learned men, lover of the
pious, glory of the dynasty of Pares, right hand of the kingdom, chief
of the nobles, boast of the monarchy and of the religion, succour of
Islam and of the Musalmans, buttress of kings and sultans, Abu Bekr,
son of Abu Nassar, may Allah prolong his life, augment his dignity,
enlighten his breast and increase his reward twofold, because he
enjoys the praise of all great men and is the embodiment of every
laudable quality.

        Whoever reposes in the shadow of his favour,
        His sin is transmuted to obedience and his foe into a friend.

  Every attendant and follower has an appointed duty and if, in the
performance thereof, he gives way to remissness and indolence, he is
certainly called to account and becomes subject to reproaches,
except the tribe of dervishes, from whom thanks are due for the
benefits they receive from great men as well as praises and prayers,
all of which duties are more suitably performed in their absence
than in their presence, because in the latter they look like
ostentation and in the former they are free from ceremony.

        The back of the bent sky became flat with joy,
        When dame nature brought forth a child like thee.
        It is an instance of wisdom if the Creator
        Causes a servant to make the general welfare his special duty.
        He has found eternal happiness who lived a good life,
        Because, after his end, good repute will keep his name alive.
        No matter whether virtuous men praise you or not
        A lovely maid stands in no need of a tire woman.


          EXCUSE FOR REMISSNESS IN SERVICE AND CAUSE
                   FOR PREFERRING SOLITUDE

  My negligence and backwardness in diligent attendance at the royal
court resemble the case of Barzachumihr, whose merits the sages of
India were discussing but could at last not reproach him with anything
except slowness of speech because he delayed long and his hearers were
obliged to wait till he delivered himself of what he had to say.
When Barzachumihr heard of this he said: 'It is better for me to
consider what to speak than to repent of what I have spoken.'

        A trained orator, old, aged,
        First meditates and then speaks.
        Do not speak without consideration.
        Speak well and if slow what matters it?
        Deliberate and then begin to talk.
        Say thyself enough before others say enough.
        By speech a man is better than a brute
        But a beast is better unless thou speakest properly.

  How then could I venture to appear in the sight of the grandees of
my lord, may his victory be glorious, who are an assembly of pious men
and the centre of profound scholars? If I were to be led in the ardour
of conversation to speak petulantly, I could produce only a trifling
stock-in-trade in the noble presence but glass beads are not worth a
barleycorn in the bazar of jewellers, a lamp does not shine in the
presence of the sun, and a minaret looks low at the foot of Mount
Alvend.

        Who lifts up his neck with pretentions,
        Foes hasten to him from every side.
        Sa'di has fallen to be a hermit.
        No one came to attack a fallen man.
        First deliberation, then speech;
        The foundation was laid first, then the wall.

  I know bouquet-binding but not in the garden. I sell a sweetheart
but not in Canaan. Loqman the philosopher, being asked from whom he
had learnt wisdom, replied: 'From the blind, who do not take a step
before trying the place.' First move about, then stir out.

        Try thy virility first, then marry.
        Though a cock may be brave in war
        He strikes his claws in vain on a brazen falcon.
        A cat is a lion in catching mice
        But a mouse in combat with a tiger.

  But, trusting in the liberal sentiments of the great, who shut their
eyes to the faults of their inferiors and abstain from divulging the
crimes of humble men, we have in this book recorded, by way of
abridgment, some rare events, stories, poetry and accounts about
ancient kings, spending a portion of our precious life in the task.
This was the reason for composing the book Gulistan; and help is
from Allah.

        This well-arranged composition will remain for years,
        When every atom of our dust is dispersed.
        The intention of this design was that it should survive
        Because I perceive no stability in my existence,
        Unless one day a pious man compassionately
        Utters a prayer for the works of dervishes.

  The author, having deliberated upon the arrangement of the book, and
the adornment of the chapters, deemed it suitable to curtail the
diction of this beautiful garden and luxuriant grove and to make it
resemble paradise, which also has eight entrances. The abridgment
was made to avoid tediousness.

           I The Manners of Kings
          II On the Morals of Dervishes
         III On the Excellence of Content
          IV On the Advantages of Silence
           V On Love and Youth
          VI On Weakness and Old Age
         VII On the Effects of Education
        VIII On Rules for Conduct in Life

        At a period when our time was pleasant
        The Hejret was six hundred and fifty-six.
        Our intention was advice and we gave it.
        We recommended thee to God and departed.


                            CHAPTER I
                      THE MANNERS OF KINGS

                             Story 1

  I heard a padshah giving orders to kill a prisoner. The helpless
fellow began to insult the king on that occasion of despair, with
the tongue he had, and to use foul expressions according to the
saying:

        Who washes his hands of life
        Says whatever he has in his heart.

  When a man is in despair his tongue becomes long and he is like a
vanquished cat assailing a dog.

        In time of need, when flight is no more possible,
        The hand grasps the point of the sharp sword.

  When the king asked what he was saying, a good-natured vezier
replied: 'My lord, he says: Those who bridle their anger and forgive
men; for Allah loveth the beneficent.'
  The king, moved with pity, forbore taking his life but another
vezier, the antagonist of the former, said: 'Men of our rank ought
to speak nothing but the truth in the presence of padshahs. This
fellow has insulted the king and spoken unbecomingly.' The king, being
displeased with these words, said: 'That lie was more acceptable to me
than this truth thou hast uttered because the former proceeded from
a conciliatory disposition and the latter from malignity; and wise men
have said: "A falsehood resulting in conciliation is better than a
truth producing trouble."'

        He whom the shah follows in what he says,
        It is a pity if he speaks anything but what is good.

  The following inscription was upon the portico of the hall of
Feridun:

        O brother, the world remains with no one.
        Bind the heart to the Creator, it is enough.
        Rely not upon possessions and this world
        Because it has cherished many like thee and slain them.
        When the pure soul is about to depart,
        What boots it if one dies on a throne or on the ground?


                             Story 2

  One of the kings of Khorasan had a vision in a dream of Sultan
Mahmud, one hundred years after his death. His whole person appeared
to have been dissolved and turned to dust, except his eyes, which were
revolving in their orbits and looking about. All the sages were unable
to give an interpretation, except a dervish who made his salutation
and said: 'He is still looking amazed how his kingdom belongs to
others.'

  Many famous men have been buried under ground
  Of whose existence on earth not a trace has remained
  And that old corpse which had been surrendered to the earth
  Was so consumed by the soil that not a bone remains.
  The glorious name of Nushirvan survives in good repute
  Although much time elapsed since he passed away.
  Do good, O man, and consider life as a good fortune,
  The more so, as when a shout is raised, a man exists no more.

                             Story 3

  I have heard that a royal prince of short stature and mean presence,
whose brothers were tall and good-looking, once saw his father
glancing on him with aversion and contempt but he had the shrewdness
and penetration to guess the meaning and said: 'O father, a puny
intelligent fellow is better than a tall ignorant man, neither is
everything bigger in stature higher in price. A sheep is nice to eat
and an elephant is carrion.'

      The smallest mountain on earth is Jur; nevertheless
      It is great with Allah in dignity and station.

        Hast thou not heard that a lean scholar
        One day said to a fat fool:
        'Although an Arab horse may be weak
        It is thus more worth than a stable full of asses.'

  The father laughed at this sally, the pillars of the state
approved of it, but the brothers felt much aggrieved.

        While a man says not a word
        His fault and virtue are concealed.
        Think not that every desert is empty.
        Possibly it may contain a sleeping tiger.

  I heard that on the said occasion the king was menaced by a powerful
enemy and that when the two armies were about to encounter each other,
the first who entered the battlefield was the little fellow who said:

      'I am not he whose back thou wilt see on the day of battle
      But he whom thou shalt behold in dust and blood.
      Who himself fights, stakes his own life
      In battle but he who flees, the blood of his army.'

  After uttering these words he rushed among the troops of the
enemy, slew several warriors and, returning to his father, made humble
obeisance and said:

        'O thou, to whom my person appeared contemptible,
        Didst not believe in the impetuosity of my valour.
        A horse with slender girth is of use
        On the day of battle, not a fattened ox.'

  It is related that the troops of the enemy were numerous, and that
the king's, being few, were about to flee, but that the puny youth
raised a shout, saying: 'O men, take care not to put on the garments
of women.' These words augmented the rage of the troopers so that they
made a unanimous attack and I heard that they gained the victory on
the said occasion. The king kissed the head and eyes of his son,
took him in his arms and daily augmented his affection till he
appointed him to succeed him on the throne. His brothers became
envious and placed poison in his food but were perceived by his sister
from her apartment, whereon she closed the window violently and the
youth, shrewdly guessing the significance of the act, restrained his
hands from touching the food, and said: 'It is impossible that men
of honour should die, and those who possess none should take their
place.'

        No one goes under the shadow of an owl
        Even if the homa should disappear from the world.

  This state of affairs having been brought to the notice of the
father, he severely reproved the brothers and assigned to each of them
a different, but pleasant, district as a place of exile till the
confusion was quelled and the quarrel appeased; and it has been said
that ten dervishes may sleep under the same blanket but that one
country cannot hold two padshahs.

        When a pious man eats half a loaf of bread
        He bestows the other half upon dervishes.
        If a padshah were to conquer the seven climates
        He would still in the same way covet another.


                             Story 4

  A band of Arab brigands having taken up their position on the top of
a mountain and closed the passage of caravans, the inhabitants of
the country were distressed by their stratagems and the troops of
the sultan foiled because the robbers, having obtained an inaccessible
spot on the summit of the mountain, thus had a refuge which they
made their habitation. The chiefs of that region held a consultation
about getting rid of the calamity because it would be impossible to
offer resistance to the robbers if they were allowed to remain.

        A tree which has just taken root
        May be moved from the place by the strength of a man
        But, if thou leavest it thus for a long time,
        Thou canst not uproot it with a windlass.
        The source of a fountain may be stopped with a bodkin
        But, when it is full, it cannot be crossed on an elephant.

  The conclusion was arrived at to send one man as a spy and to wait
for the opportunity till the brigands departed to attack some people
and leave the place empty. Then several experienced men, who had
fought in battles, were despatched to keep themselves in ambush in a
hollow of the mountain. In the evening the brigands returned from
their excursion with their booty, divested themselves of their arms,
put away their plunder and the first enemy who attacked them was
sleep, till about a watch of the night had elapsed:

        The disk of the sun went into darkness.
        Jonah went into the mouth of the fish.

  The warriors leapt forth from the ambush, tied the hands of every
one of the robbers to his shoulders and brought them in the morning to
the court of the king, who ordered all of them to be slain. There
happened to be a youth among them, the fruit of whose vigour was
just ripening and the verdure on the rose-garden of whose cheek had
begun to sprout. One of the veziers, having kissed the foot of the
king's throne and placed the face of intercession upon the ground,
said: 'This boy has not yet eaten any fruit from the garden of life
and has not yet enjoyed the pleasures of youth. I hope your majesty
will generously and kindly confer an obligation upon your slave by
sparing his life.' The king, being displeased with this request,
answered:

  'He whose foundation is bad will not take instruction from the good,
  To educate unworthy persons is like throwing nuts on a cupola.

  'It is preferable to extirpate the race and offspring of these
people and better to dig up their roots and foundations, because it is
not the part of wise men to extinguish fire and to leave burning coals
or to kill a viper and leave its young ones.

        If a cloud should rain the water of life
        Never sip it from the branch of a willow-tree.
        Associate not with a base fellow
        Because thou canst not eat sugar from a mat-reed.'

  The vezier heard these sentiments, approved of them nolens volens,
praised the opinion of the king and said: 'What my lord has uttered is
the very truth itself because if the boy had been brought up in the
company of those wicked men, he would have become one of themselves.
But your slave hopes that he will, in the society of pious men, profit
by education and will acquire the disposition of wise persons. Being
yet a child the rebellious and perverse temper of that band has not
yet taken hold of his nature and there is a tradition of the prophet
that every infant is born with an inclination for Islam but his
parents make him a Jew, a Christian or a Majusi.'

        The spouse of Lot became a friend of wicked persons.
        His race of prophets became extinct.
        The dog of the companions of the cave for some days
        Associated with good people and became a man.

  When the vezier had said these words and some of the king's
courtiers had added their intercession to his, the king no longer
desired to shed the blood of the youth and said: 'I grant the
request although I disapprove-of it.'

        Knowest thou not what Zal said to the hero Rastam:
        'An enemy cannot be held despicable or helpless.
        I have seen many a water from a paltry spring
        Becoming great and carrying off a camel with its load.'

  In short, the vezier brought up the boy delicately, with every
comfort, and kept masters to educate him, till they had taught him
to address persons in elegant language as well as to reply and he
had acquired every accomplishment. One day the vezier hinted at his
talents in the presence of the king, asserting that the instructions
of wise men had taken effect upon the boy and had expelled his
previous ignorance from his nature. The king smiled at these words and
said:

        'At last a wolf's whelp will be a wolf
        Although he may grow up with a man.'

  After two years had elapsed a band of robbers in the locality joined
him, tied the knot of friendship and, when the opportunity presented
itself, he killed the vezier with his son, took away untold wealth and
succeeded to the position of his own father in the robber-cave where
he established himself. The king, informed of the event, took the
finger of amazement between his teeth and said:

  'How can a man fabricate a good sword of bad iron?
  O sage, who is nobody becomes not somebody by education.
  The rain, in the beneficence of whose nature there is no flaw,
  Will cause tulips to grow in a garden and weeds in bad soil.
  Saline earth will not produce hyacinths.
  Throw not away thy seeds or work thereon.
  To do good to wicked persons is like Doing evil to good men.'


                             Story 5

  I saw at the palace-gate of Oglimish the son of a military officer
who was endued with marvellous intellect, sagacity, perception and
shrewdness; also the signs of future greatness manifested themselves
on his forehead whilst yet a small boy.

        From his head intelligence caused
        The star of greatness to shine.

  In short, he pleased the sultan because he had a beautiful
countenance and a perfect understanding; and philosophers have said:
'Power consists in accomplishments, not in wealth and greatness in
intellect, not in years.' His companions, being envious, made an
attempt upon his life and desired to kill him but their endeavours
remained fruitless.

        What can a foe do when the friend is kind?

  The king asked: 'What is the cause of their enmity to thee?' He
replied: 'Under the shadow of the monarchy of my lord I have satisfied
my contemporaries except the envious, who will not be contented but by
the decline of my prosperity, and may the monarchy and good fortune of
my lord be perpetual.'

  I may so act as not to hurt the feelings of anyone
  But what can I do to an envious man dissatisfied with himself?
  Die, O envious man, for this is a malady,
  Deliverance from which can be obtained only by death.
  Unfortunate men sometimes ardently desire
  The decline of prosperous men in wealth and dignity.
  If in daytime, bat-eyed persons do not see
  Is it the fault of the fountain of light, the sun?
  Thou justly wishest that a thousand such eyes
  Should be blind rather than the sun dark.


                             Story 6

  It is narrated that one of the kings of Persia had stretched forth
his tyrannical hand to the possessions of his subjects and had begun
to oppress them so violently that in consequence of his fraudulent
extortions they dispersed in the world and chose exile on account of
the affliction entailed by his violence. When the population had
diminished, the prosperity of the country suffered, the treasury
remained empty and on every side enemies committed violence.

  Who desires succour in the day of calamity,
  Say to him: 'Be generous in times of prosperity.'
  The slave with a ring in his ear, if not cherished will depart.
  Be kind because then a stranger will become thy slave.

  One day the Shahnamah was read in his assembly, the subject being
the ruin of the dominion of Zohak and the reign of Feridun. The vezier
asked the king how it came to pass that Feridun, who possessed neither
treasure nor land nor a retinue, established himself upon the
throne. He replied: 'As thou hast heard, the population
enthusiastically gathered around him and supported him so that he
attained royalty.' The vezier said: 'As the gathering around of the
population is the cause of royalty, then why dispersest thou the
population? Perhaps thou hast no desire for royalty?'

        It is best to cherish the army as thy life
        Because a sultan reigns by means of his troops.

  The king asked: 'What is the reason for the gathering around of
the troops and the population?' He replied: 'A padshah must practise
justice that they may gather around him and clemency that they may
dwell in safety under the shadow of his government; but thou
possessest neither of these qualities.'

        A tyrannic man cannot be a sultan
        As a wolf cannot be a shepherd.
        A padshah who establishes oppression
        Destroys the basis of the wall of his own reign.

  The king, displeased with the advice of his censorious vezier,
sent him to prison. Shortly afterwards the sons of the king's uncle
rose in rebellion, desirous of recovering the kingdom of their father.
The population, which had been reduced to the last extremity by the
king's oppression and scattered, now assembled around them and
supported them, till he lost control of the government and they took
possession of it.

        A padshah who allows his subjects to be oppressed
        Will in his day of calamity become a violent foe.
        Be at peace with subjects and sit safe from attacks of foes
        Because his subjects are the army of a just shahanshah.


  
  A padshah was in the same boat with a Persian slave who had never
before been at sea and experienced the inconvenience of a vessel. He
began to cry and to tremble to such a degree that he could not be
pacified by kindness, so that at last the king became displeased as
the matter could not be remedied. In that boat there happened to be
a philosopher, who said: 'With thy permission I shall quiet him.'
The padshah replied: 'It will be a great favour.' The philosopher
ordered the slave to be thrown into the water so that he swallowed
some of it, whereon be was caught and pulled by his hair to the
boat, to the stern of which he clung with both his hands. Then he
sat down in a corner and became quiet. This appeared strange to the
king who knew not what wisdom there was in the proceeding and asked
for it. The philosopher replied: 'Before he had tasted the calamity of
being drowned, he knew not the safety of the boat; thus also a man
does not appreciate the value of immunity from a misfortune until it
has befallen him.'

        O thou full man, barley-bread pleases thee not.
        She is my sweetheart who appears ugly to thee.
        To the huris of paradise purgatory seems hell.
        Ask the denizens of hell. To them purgatory is paradise.

  There is a difference between him whose friend is in his arms
  And him whose eyes of expectation are upon the door.



  Hormuzd, being asked what fault the veziers of his father had
committed that he imprisoned them, replied: 'I discovered no fault.
I saw that boundless awe of me had taken root in their hearts but that
they had no full confidence in my promises, wherefore I apprehended
that they, fearing calamities would befall them, might attempt my life
and I acted according to the maxim of sages who have said:

        'Dread him who dreads thee, O sage,
        Although thou couldst cope with a hundred like him.
        Seest thou not when the cat becomes desperate
        How he plucks out with his claws the eyes of a tiger?
        The viper stings the shepherd's foot
        Because it fears he will strike his head with a stone.'


  An Arab king was sick in his state of decrepitude so that all
hopes of life were cut off. A trooper entered the gate with the good
news that a certain fort had been conquered by the good luck of the
king, that the enemies had been captured and that the whole population
of the district had been reduced to obedience. The king heaved a
deep sigh and replied: 'This message is not for me but for my enemies,
namely the heirs of the kingdom.'

        I spent my precious life in hopes, alas!
        That every desire of my heart will be fulfilled.
        My wishes were realized, but to what profit? Since
        There is no hope that my past life will return.
        The hand of fate has struck the drum of departure.
        O my two eyes, bid farewell to the head.
        O palm, forearm, and arm of my hand,
        All take leave from each other.
        Death, the foe of my desires, has fallen on me
        For the last time, O friends. Pass near me.
        My life has elapsed in ignorance.
        I have done nothing, be on your guard.


  I was constantly engaged in prayer, at the head of the prophet
Yahia's tomb in the cathedral mosque of Damascus, when one of the Arab
kings, notorious for his injustice, happened to arrive on a pilgrimage
to it, who offered his supplications and asked for compliance with his
needs.

  The dervish and the plutocrat are slaves on the floor of this
    threshold
  And those who are the wealthiest are the most needy.

  Then he said to me: 'Dervishes being zealous and veracious in
their dealings, unite thy mind to mine, for I am apprehensive of a
powerful enemy.' I replied: 'Have mercy upon thy feeble subjects
that thou mayest not be injured by a strong foe.'

  With a powerful arm and the strength of the wrist
  To break the five fingers of a poor man is sin.
  Let him be afraid who spares not the fallen
  Because if he falls no one will take hold of his hand.
  Whoever sows bad seed and expects good fruit
  Has cudgelled his brains for nought and begotten vain imaginations.
  Extract the cotton from thy ears and administer justice to thy
    people
  And if thou failest to do so, there is a day of retribution.

        The sons of Adam are limbs of each other
        Having been created of one essence.

    When the calamity of time afflicts one limb
    The other limbs cannot remain at rest.
    If thou hast no sympathy for the troubles of others
    Thou art unworthy to be called by the name of a man.


                             Story 11

  A dervish, whose prayers met with answers, made his appearance,
and Hejaj Yusuf, calling him, said: 'Utter a good prayer for me',
whereon the dervish exclaimed: 'O God, take his life.' He replied:
'For God's sake, what prayer is this?' The dervish rejoined: 'It is
a good prayer for thee and for all Musalmans.'

        O tyrant, who oppressest thy subjects,
        How long wilt thou persevere in this?
        Of what use is authority to thee?
        To die is better for thee than to oppress men.


                             Story 12

  An unjust king asked a devotee what kind of worship is best? He
replied: 'For thee the best is to sleep one half of the day so as
not to injure the people for a while.'

  I saw a tyrant sleeping half the day.
  I said: 'This confusion, if sleep removes it, so much the better;
  But he whose sleep is better than his wakefulness
  Is better dead than leading such a bad life.'


                             Story 13

  I heard a king, who had changed might into day by pleasures,
saying in his drunkenness:

  'We have in the world no moment more delightful than this,
  Because I care neither for good nor for bad nor for anyone.'

  A naked dervish, who was sleeping outside in the cold, then said:

  'O thou like whom in happiness there is no one in the world,
  I take it if thou carest not, we also do not care.'

  The king, being pleased with these words of unconcern, held out a
bag of a thousand dinars from the window and said: 'Dervish, spread
out thy skirt.' He replied: 'Whence can I, who have no robe, bring a
skirt?' The padshah took pity on his helpless condition, added a
robe to his gift and sent it out to him but the dervish squandered the
money in a short time and returned.

  Property cannot abide in the hands of the free,
  Neither patience in the heart of a lover nor water in a sieve.

  The case of the dervish having been brought to the notice of the
king when he was not in good humour, he became angry and turned his
face away. Therefore it has been said that intelligent and experienced
men ought to be on their guard against the violence and despotism of
kings because their thoughts are generally occupied with important
affairs of state so that they cannot bear to be importuned by the
crowd of vulgar persons.

      He will be excluded from the beneficence of the padshah
      Who cannot watch for the proper opportunity.
      Before thou seest the occasion for speaking at hand
      Destroy not thy power by heedless talk.

  The king said: 'Drive away this impudent and prodigal mendicant
who has in so short a time thrown away so much money. He does not know
that the Beit-ulmal is intended to offer a morsel to the needy and not
to feed the brothers of devils.'

        The fool who burns by day a camphor-light
        Will soon not have an oil-lamp for the night.

  One of councillor-veziers said: 'My lord, it would seem proper to
grant to such persons a sufficient allowance to be drawn from time
to time so that they may not squander it. But anger and repulsion,
as manifested by thee, are unworthy of a generous disposition as
also to encourage a man by kindness and then again to distress him
by disappointing his expectation.'

        The door ought not to be opened to applicants so
        That, when it is ajar, it may not be shut again.
        Nobody sees the thirsty pilgrims to Hejaz
        Crowding at the bank of briny water.
        Wherever a sweet spring happens to be
        Men, birds and insects flock around it.
                             Story 14

  One of the ancient kings neglected the government of his realm and
kept the army in distress. Accordingly the whole of it ran away when a
powerful enemy appeared.

        If he refrains from giving treasure to the troops
        They refrain from putting their hands to the sword.
        What bravery will they display in battle array
        When their hands are empty and affairs deplorable?

  I was on terms of friendship with one of those who had acted
treacherously and reproached him, telling him that it was base,
ungrateful, despicable and undutiful to abandon an old master when his
affairs have changed a little and to disregard the obligations
incurred for benefits received during many years. He replied: 'If I
inform thee, perhaps thou wilt excuse me for my horse had no barley
and my saddle-cloth was pawned. A sultan who grudges money to his
troops, they cannot bravely risk their lives for him.'

        Give gold to the soldier that he may serve thee.
        If thou witholdest gold, he will serve elsewhere.

  When a warrior is full, he will be brave infight but if his belly be
empty, he will be brave in flight.


                             Story 15

  A vezier, who had been removed from his post, entered the circle
of dervishes and the blessing of their society took such effect upon
him that he became contented in his mind. When the king was again
favourably disposed towards him and ordered him to resume his
office, he refused and said: 'Retirement is better than occupation.'

        Those who have sat down in the corner of safety
        Have bound the teeth of dogs and tongues of men.
        They tore the paper up and broke the pen
        And are saved from the hands and tongues of slanderers.

  The king said: 'Verily we stand in need of a man of sufficient
intelligence who is able to carry on the administration of the
government.' He replied: 'It is a sign of sufficient intelligence
not to engage in such matters.'

        The homa excels all other birds in nobility
        Because it feeds on bones and injures no living thing.

  A donkey, having been asked for what salary he had elected to attend
upon the lion, replied: 'That I may consume the remnants of his prey
and live in safety from my enemies by taking refuge under his
bravery.' Being again asked that, as he had entered into the shadow of
the lion's protection and gratefully acknowledged his beneficence, why
he had not joined the circle of intimacy so as to be accounted one
of his favourite servants, he replied: 'I am in the same way also
not safe of his bravery.'

        Should a Guebre kindle fire a hundred years
        If he falls one moment into it he will be burnt.

  It may happen that a companion of his majesty the sultan receives
gold and it is possible that he loses his head. Philosophers have said
that it is necessary to be on guard of the fickle temper of padshahs
because sometimes they are displeased with politeness and at others
they bestow robes of honour for rudeness. It is also said that much
jocularity is an accomplishment in courtiers but a fault in sages.

        Abide thou by thy dignity and gravity.
        Leave sport and jocularity to courtiers.


                             Story 16

  One of my friends complained of the unpropitious times, telling me
that he had a slender income, a large family, without strength to bear
the load of poverty and had often entertained the idea to emigrate
to another country so that no matter how he made a living no one might
become aware of his good or ill luck.

  Many a man slept hungry and no one knew who he was.
  Many a man was at the point of death and no one wept for him.

  He was also apprehensive of the malevolence of enemies who would
laugh behind his back and would attribute the struggle he underwent
for the benefit of his family to his want of manly independence and
that they will say:

        'Behold that dishonourable fellow who will never
        See the face of prosperity,
        Will choose bodily comfort for himself,
        Abandoning his wife and children to misery.'

  He also told me that as I knew he possessed some knowledge of
arithmetic, I might, through my influence, get him appointed to a post
which would become the means of putting his mind at ease and place him
under obligations to me, which he could not requite by gratitude
during the rest of his life. I replied: 'Dear friend! Employment by
a padshah consists of two parts, namely, the hope for bread and the
danger of life, but it is against the opinion of intelligent men to
incur this danger for that hope.'

        No one comes to the house of a dervish
        To levy a tax on land and garden.
        Either consent to bear thy anxiety or grief
        Or carry thy beloved children to the crows.

  He replied: 'Thou hast not uttered these words in conformity with my
case nor answered my question. Hast thou not heard the saying?
"Whoever commits treachery let his hand tremble at the account."'

        Straightness is the means of acceptance with God.
        I saw no one lost on the straight road.

  Sages have said: 'Four persons are for life in dread of four
persons: a robber of the sultan, a thief of the watchman, an adulterer
of an informer, and a harlot of the muhtasib. But what has he to
fear whose account of the conscience is clear?'

  Be not extravagant when in office, if thou desirest
  On thy removal to see thy foes embarrassed for imputations against
    thee.
  Be thou pure, O brother, and in fear of no one.
  Washermen beat only impure garments against stones.

  I said: 'The story of that fox resembles thy case, who was by some
persons seen fleeing with much trouble and asked for the cause of
his fear replied: 'I have heard that camels are being forced into
the service.' They said: 'O fool, what connection hast thou with a
camel and what resemblance does the latter bear to thee?' The fox
rejoined: 'Hush. If the envious malevolently say that I am a camel and
I am caught, who will care to release me or investigate my case?
Till the antidote is brought from Eraq the snake-bitten person
dies.' Thou art a very excellent and honest man but enemies sit in
ambush and competitors in every corner. If they describe thy character
in a contrary manner, thou wouldst be called upon to give explanations
to the padshah and incur reproof. Who would on that occasion venture
to say anything? Accordingly I am of opinion that thou shouldst retire
to the domain of contentment and abandon aspirations to dominion. Wise
men have said:

        'In the sea there are countless gains,
        But if thou desirest safety, it will be on the shore.'

  My friend, having heard these words, became angry, made a wry face
and began to reproach me, saying: 'What sufficiency of wisdom and
maturity of intellect is this? The saying of philosophers has come
true, that friends are useful in prison because at table all enemies
appear as friends.'

  Account him not a friend who knocks at the door of prosperity,
  Boasts of amity and calls himself thy adopted brother.
  I consider him a friend who takes a friend's hand
  When he is in a distressed state and in poverty.

  Seeing that he had thus changed and ascribed my advice to an
interested motive, I paid a visit to the President of the State
Council and, trusting in my old acquaintance with him, explained the
case of my friend whom he then appointed to a small post. In a short
time my friend's affable behaviour and good management elicited
approbation so that he was promoted to a higher office. In this manner
the star of his good luck ascended till he reached the zenith of his
aspirations, became a courtier of his majesty the sultan, generally
esteemed and trusted. I was delighted with his safe position and said:

  'Be not apprehensive of tangled affairs and keep not a broken heart
  Because the spring of life is in darkness.'

        Do not grieve, O brother in misery,
        Because the Ill-merciful has hidden favours.

  Sit not morose on account of the turns of time; for patience,
  Although bitter, nevertheless possesses a sweet fruit.

  At that time I happened to go with a company of friends on a journey
to Mekkah and on my return he met me at a distance of two stages. I
perceived his outward appearance to be distressed, his costume being
that of dervishes. I asked: 'What is the matter?' He replied: 'As thou
hast predicted, some persons envied me and brought against me an
accusation of treason. The king ordered no inquiry on its truthfulness
and my old well-wishers with my kind friends who failed to speak the
word of truth forgot our old intimacy.

        'Seest thou not in front of the possessor of dignity
        They place the hands on their heads, praising him;
        But, if fortune's turn causes his fall,
        All desire to Place their foot on his head.

  'In short, I was till this week undergoing various persecutions,
when the news of the pilgrims' approach from Mekkah arrived, whereon I
was released from my heavy bonds and my hereditary property
confiscated.' I replied: 'Thou hast not paid attention to my remarks
when I said that the service of padshahs is like a sea voyage,
profitable and dangerous, so that thou wilt either gain a treasure
or perish in the waves.'

      The khajah either takes gold with both hands to the shore
      Or the waves throw him one day dead upon the shore.

  Not thinking it suitable to scratch the wound of the dervish more
than I had already done and so sprinkle salt thereon, I contented
myself with reciting the following two distichs:

        Knewest thou not that thou wilt see thy feet in bonds
        If the advice of people cannot penetrate into thy ear?

        Again, if thou canst not bear the pain of the sting
        Put not thy finger into the hole of a scorpion.


                             Story 17

  Several men were in my company whose external appearance displayed
the adornment of piety. A great man who had conceived a very good
opinion of these persons had assigned them a fixed allowance but,
after one of them had done something unbecoming the profession of
dervishes, his opinion changed and they fell into disgrace. I
desired in some way to save the allowance of my friends and intended
to wait upon the great man but the doorkeeper would not allow me to
enter and was rude. I pardoned him, because it has been said:

      The door of an amir, vezier or sultan
      Is not to be approached without an introduction.
      When a dog or a doorkeeper sees a stranger
      The former takes hold of his skirt, the latter of his collar.

  When those who could at any time approach the presence of the said
great man became aware of my case, they took me in with compliments
and desired to assign me a high seat but I humbly took a lower one and
said:

         'Allow me who am the smallest slave
         To sit in the line of slaves.'

  He said: 'Allah, Allah, what need is there for such words?'

          If thou sittest on my head and eyes
          I shall be polite, for thou art polite.

  In short, I took a seat and we conversed on a variety of topics till
the affair of the error of my companions turned up and I said:

      'What crime has my lord seen, who was bountiful,
      To make the slave despicable in his sight?
      To God that magnanimity and bounty is surrendered
      Which beholds the crime but nevertheless bestows the bread.'

  The governor, being pleased with these words, ordered the support of
my friends to be attended to as before and the arrears to be made
good. I expressed my gratitude, kissed the ground of obedience,
apologized for my boldness, and said:

  'Since the Ka'bah has become the Qiblah of wants from distant lands
  The people go to visit it from many farsangs.
  Thou must suffer the importunity of such as we are
  Because no one throws stones on a tree without fruit.'


hear a man who was the prisoner to the and a few questions about a little runner runner of 
ferocious rally ferocious rally and the prisoner was not a man 
he had been a few seconds 